Gintonin was prepared from Panax ginseng according to a previous method (Pyo et al. 2011). Because of gintonin’s scarcity in animal experiments, we used a gintonin-enriched fraction. The gintonin-enriched fraction was prepared as follows. One kilogram of 4-year-old ginseng was ground into small pieces (> 3 mm) and refluxed with 70% fermented ethanol eight times for 8 h at 80°C each. The extracts (150 g) were concentrated, dissolved in distilled, cold water at a ratio of 1 to 10, and stored at 4°C for 24–96 h. The supernatant and precipitate of water fractionation after ethanol extraction of ginseng were separated by centrifugation (3000 rpm, 20 min). The precipitate after centrifugation was lyophilized. This fraction was designated the gintonin-enriched fraction, since this fraction contains most of the gintonin (Choi et al., 2015a). For in vitro study, gintonin was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and then diluted with bath medium before use. The final DMSO concentration was less than 0.01%. For in vivo studies, the gintonin-enriched fraction was dissolved in saline. The Amplex® Red Acetylcholine/Acetylcholinesterase Assay Kit (A-12217) was purchased from Invitrogen (USA). The primary antibody against choline acetyltransferase was purchased from Millipore (Bedford, MA, USA). All other reagents were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (USA).
Male ICR or C57BL/6 mice (4- or 8-weeks-old) were purchased from Koatech Co., Ltd. (Pyongtaek, Korea). Breeding pairs of double Tg mice expressing the mutant swe-AβPP (AβPPswe) gene and the mutant presenilin-1 (PSEN-1) gene (deletion of exon 9) [AβPPswe/PSEN-1 double Tg mice; B6C3-Tg (AβPPswe/PSEN1dE9) 85Dbo/J, The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, USA] were bred and housed in an approved animal facility at Kangwon National University (Korea). Six-month-old AβPPswe/PSEN1dE9 double Tg mice were treated with gintonin (25 or 50 mg/kg, p.o. administration) or donepezil (DPZ) (1 mg/kg, i.p. injection) thrice a week (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) for 3 months. The immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase commenced when the mice were 9-months-old. The animals were housed five per cage, allowed access to water and food ad libitum, and maintained under a constant temperature (23 ± 1°C) and humidity (55 ± 5%) under a 12 h light/dark cycle (lights on 07:00 to 19:00 h). All experiments were conducted in accordance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals of the National Institutes of Health. The protocol was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees of the Kangwon (Permit Number: 13–156) and Konkuk (Permit Number: 14–956) Universities. All surgeries were performed under sodium pentobarbital anesthesia, and all efforts were made to minimize suffering.
β-Amyloid (Aβ)40-1 and Aβ1–40 (American Peptide Co., USA) were dissolved in 0.1 M phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) (pH 7.4), and aliquots were stored at −20°C. Each aliquot was aggregated by incubation in sterile distilled water at 37°C for 4 days. Two month-old C57BL/6 mice were administered Aβ40-1 or Aβ1–40 [400 pmol, i.c.v. injection] according to the procedure established by Hwang et al. (2012b). Each mouse was injected consciously at the bregma with a 10-μl microsyringe (Hamilton, USA) fitted with a 26-gauge needle that was inserted to a depth of 2.4 mm. The injection volume was 5 μl. The injection placement or needle track was visible and was verified at the time of dissection.
Hippocampal neural progenitor cultures were prepared according to the method described by Kim et al. (2011). Briefly, on embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5), embryos were dissected from adult, female, pregnant C57BL/6 mice. The hippocampal regions of embryonic brains were isolated in calcium/magnesium-free Hank’s balanced salt solution (HBSS). The cells were plated at 2.5 × 104 cells/cm2 on 10-cm-diameter dishes coated with 15 μg/ml poly-l-ornithine and 1 μg/ml fibronectin (Invitrogen). The cells were placed in N2 media supplemented with B27 (Invitrogen) at 37°C in a 95% air/5% CO2 gas incubator. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF, 20 ng/ml, R&D Systems) and epidermal growth factor (EGF, 20 ng/ml, R&D Systems) were required daily in order to expand the population of neural precursors, and the medium was changed every other day. Cells at 80% confluency were passaged and maintained at 6 × 104 cells/cm2 in B27-supplemented N2 media containing bFGF and EGF. These sub-cultured progenitors were induced to differentiate by withdrawing bFGF and EGF and kept in differentiation media (Neurobasal medium supplemented with B27) for 3 to 5 days
Mice were sacrificed one day after the behavioral study. The hippocampal tissues were homogenated in ice-cold 20 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.4), and tissue homogenates were centrifuged at 12,000 × g for 30 min at 4°C. The supernatant was assayed for ACh levels using an Amplex® Red Acetylcholine/Acetylcholinesterase Assay Kit (A-12217; Invitrogen, USA). According to the manufacturer’s instructions, reactions were initiated by adding 100 μl of the working solution, containing 400 μM Amplex Red reagent, 2 U/ml horseradish peroxidase (HRP), 0.2 U/ml choline oxidase, and 1 U/ml acetylcholinesterase, to each microplate well containing 100 μl of the standard or test sample. Each reaction was incubated for 1 h at room temperature with plate agitation and protection from light. Absorbance was then measured using a microplate reader (Molecular Devices, USA) at a wavelength of 563 nm. Hippocampal acetylcholine levels were calculated from a standard curve and expressed as nmol/mg protein (Jin et al., 2009). Protein concentrations were determined using a Quant-iT™ Protein assay kit (Invitrogen).
AChE activity was also measured using an Amplex® Red Acetylcholine/Acetylcholinesterase Assay Kit (A-12217; Invitrogen). A working solution, containing 400 μM Amplex Red reagent, 2 U/ml HRP, 0.2 U/ml choline oxidase, and 100 μM acetylcholine, was used for AChE activity measurement. For ChAT activity, 5% tissue homogenates were prepared in ice-cold 20 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) and kept frozen overnight at −20°C. They were thawed on the following day and centrifuged at 12,000 × g for 1 h at 4°C. The supernatant was assayed for ChAT activity according to the method of Chao and Wolfgram (Chao and Wolfgram, 1972). Each reaction mixture (0.4 ml), containing 25 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2), 0.31 mM acetyl-CoA, 50 mM choline chloride, 38 μM neostigmine sulfate, 0.15 M NaCl, and 55 μM EDTA, was preincubated in centrifuge tubes in a water bath at 37°C for 5 min. One-hundred microliters of the homogenate was then added to the reaction mixture, and the tubes were kept at 37°C for an additional 20 min. The reaction was stopped by boiling for 2 min, and 1 ml of oxygen-free distilled water was added to the tubes. The denatured protein was removed by centrifugation. One milliliter of supernatant was added to a tube containing 30 μl of 1 mM 4,4′-dithiopyridine. After a 15-min incubation, the absorbance was measured at 324 nm with a spectrophotometer. One unit of enzyme activity was defined as 1 μmol of reduced coenzyme formed/min·mg protein. Protein was assayed as mentioned above.
Mice were first perfused transcardially with a 50-mL syringe containing ice-cold PBS (10 ml/10 g body weight) and then followed by 4% paraformaldehyde (20 ml/10 g body weight) for immunocytochemical analysis (Hooijmans et al., 2007; Jung et al., 2010). The brains were collected and stored in 4% paraformaldehyde overnight. To quench endogenous peroxidase activity, sections were pre-incubated with 0.3% hydrogen peroxide in PBS for 30 min and then incubated in PBS containing 0.4% Triton X-100 for 20 min and 1% normal serum for 20 min. Sections were incubated for 48 h with the primary antibody against AChE (1:100, Millipore, Millipore, USA) or ChAT (1:100, Millipore, Millipore, USA), and were further incubated with the secondary biotinylated antisera (1:1000, Vector Laboratories, USA) for 1 h. Then, sections were immersed in a solution containing an avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex (Vector Laboratories) for 1 h, and 3,3′-diaminobenzidine was used as the chromogen. Digital images were acquired on an Olympus microscope (BX51, Olympus®, Tokyo, Japan) using an attached digital microscope camera (DP72, Olympus®) and IBM PC. Region of interest (ROI) was created by Optimas® version 6.51 (Media Cybernetics, Inc. USA). Subsequent quantification was performed using ImageJ version 1.47 software (National Institutes of Health, USA) as described previously (Wang et al., 2012). Briefly, background was subtracted using the rolling ball “Subtract Background” command to correct uneven background. ChAT-immunopositive neurites were selected by adjusting threshold values for hue (0–255), saturation (0–255), and brightness (0–240) in the “Adjust Color Threshold” dialog box, and then the integrated density was measured. The results are expressed as the percentage of control mice.
The passive avoidance test was performed as previously described using a Gemini Avoidance System (San Diego Instruments, USA) (Kim et al., 2013). Briefly, during the acquisition trial, each mouse was first placed into a dark compartment as the start chamber. After 20 s, this chamber was illuminated, and the door was opened to allow the mouse to freely move into the second dark chamber. After the mouse had entered the dark chamber, the door was immediately closed. One unavoidable and scrambled electric shock (0.8 mA, 2 s) was given through the floor grid. The mouse was then returned to its home cage. Each mouse was placed in the start chamber again 24 h later. The interval between the placement in the illuminated chamber and entry into the dark chamber was measured as the step-through latency in both the acquisition and the retention trials up to 300 s. Mice were daily treated with gintonin-enriched fraction (control vehicle, 25, 50, or 100 mg/kg) for three weeks by oral administration. Acquisition trial was performed one hour after the last treatment with gintonin-enriched fraction. Thirty minutes before the acquisition trial (i.e., 30 min after the last treatment with gintonin-enriched fraction), memory impairment was induced by administering scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). The control group has been received saline rather than gintonin-enriched fraction.
A rounded pool (97 cm in diameter and 60 cm in height) was used for Morris water maze test according to the previous procedure with slight modifications (Kim et al., 2013). Briefly, the circular pool was filled to a depth height of 30 cm with clouded water (20 ± 1°C) with powdered milk. The top of the platform (6 cm in diameter and 29 cm in height) was 1 cm below the water surface in the center of one quadrant of the maze. The first day of the experiment was performed for swimming training for 60 s in the absence of the platform. From the next day, the mice were received trial sessions for four days. In each daily training session, the mice were subjected to four successive training trials. During each trial, the escape latency of each mouse was measured using a stopwatch. This parameter was averaged for each session of trials and for each mouse. Once the mouse located the platform, the mouse was allowed to stay on it for 10 s. If the mouse did not locate the platform within 60 s, the mouse was placed on the platform for 10 s. The time interval between each trial was 30 s. On the last day of training, mice were given a probe trial session, in which the platform from the pool was removed and mice were allowed to swim in search of it for 60 s. The swimming time was recorded in the pool quadrant, where the platform had previously been placed was maintained. Mice were also daily treated with gintonin-enriched fraction (control vehicle, 25, 50, or 100 mg/kg) for three weeks by oral administration including the last four days of the training sessions. During the training sessions, gintonin-enriched fraction was administered one hour before each training session. Thirty minutes later, mice were treated with scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) to induce memory impairment.
Statistical comparisons between controls and treated experimental groups were made using Student’s t-test unless otherwise stated. Statistical analyses were performed using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) or repeated measures one-way ANOVA. A post-hoc Fisher’s protected least significant difference (PLSD) test followed. Data are expressed as the mean ± SEM. A P value < 0.05 was accepted as statistically significant.
Eye wipe behavior and orbicularis oculi muscle activity (OOemg) were measured after ocular instillation of HS, capsaicin, or menthol 14 days after exorbital gland removal. Total RNA and protein were measured from anterior eye segment and trigeminal ganglia of sham and DE rats.
Patients above 1 year, with microscopy-confirmed, Plasmodium falciparum and/or P. vivax malaria were treated with AS/SP. Patients with P. falciparum were randomized to no primaquine (Pf-noPQ) or a single 0.25 mg/kg dose of PQ (Pf-PQ1). Patients with P. vivax received 14 days unsupervised 3.5 mg/kg PQ (Pv-PQ14) on day 2 or at the end of follow up (Pv-noPQ). Primary endpoint was the risk of recurrent parasitaemia at day 42. G6PD activity was measured by spectrophotometry and the Accessbio Biosensor™.
The study was conducted at two sites in the Republic of Sudan: Gezira Slanj, a semi-urban area north of Khartoum (15°53′11.2″N 32°31′39.9″E), and New Halfa, in the east of the country (15°20′N 35°35′00″E). Malaria transmission in north Khartoum and eastern Sudan is seasonal with the main transmission occurring between September to February [16, 17], although malaria occurs throughout the year at both study sites. Key mosquito vectors in Sudan include Anopheles arabiensis, besides Anopheles gambiae s.l. and Anopheles funestus s.l. [11].
Study participants were recruited from patients presenting to one of two health care facilities with febrile illness. Patients with peripheral P. falciparum and/or P. vivax parasitaemia detected by microscopy, aged at least 12 months, with history of fever in the last 24 h or axillary body temperature ≥ 37.5 °C were eligible for enrolment. Patients were excluded if they weighed less than 5 kg, were pregnant, had signs of severe malaria [18], were unable to tolerate oral medication, had a haemoglobin (Hb) concentration less than 8 g/dl, were on regular medication which could interfere with study treatment, or had known allergies to any of the study drugs. Whenever G6PD activity was determined by spectrophotometry participants with G6PD activities below 3.0 U/gHb were excluded from 14 day primaquine treatment [19].
The study was designed as an open label, prospective randomized, controlled trial with 42 days of follow up. All patients were treated with AS/SP, allocation to PQ treatment was randomized according to the species of infection. Patients with P. falciparum mono-infection were randomized to receive AS/SP either alone (Pf-noPQ) or with a single dose of PQ (Pf-PQ1) administered on day 2. Patients with a P. vivax mono or mixed infection were randomized to receive AS/SP either alone (Pv-noPQ) or combined with 14 days of PQ (Pv-PQ14) starting on day 2. Patients in the Pv-noPQ arm received PQ according to national guidelines but delayed until after the end of 42 day follow up.

Treatment allocation was randomized in blocks of 20 and was provided in a sealed opaque envelope, which was only opened by a study nurse once the participant had met all the enrolment criteria and had provided written informed consent. Study staff assigned the patients sequentially according to the sealed envelopes. Blinding of clinical staff towards group allocation was not possible with the standard commercially sourced drugs; however, assignment was concealed from the microscopists responsible for determination of the primary endpoint.
Quality assured co-formulated blister packs of AS/SP (Shanghai-Sudan Pharmaceutical Ltd, China) were used for the study and patients were treated for 3 days according to national guidelines (target dose 4 mg/kg/day for AS and 25/1.25 mg/kg for SP) [13, 14]. On day 2, patients with P. falciparum infection were allocated to receive either no further treatment (Pf-noPQ) or a single dose of 0.25 mg/kg PQ (Pf-PQ1), manufactured by ipca Laboratories Ltd, Mumbai India.

Patients infected with P. vivax alone or mixed with P. falciparum, were allocated either to AS/SP and 14 days of unsupervised PQ (0.25 mg/kg/day, total dose 3.5 mg/kg) starting on day 2 (Pv-PQ14) or AS/SP alone (Pv-noPQ).

All doses of AS/SP and the single dose PQ in the Pf-PQ1 arm were supervised, however only the first dose of primaquine in the Pv-PQ14 arm was supervised. Study participants were observed for 30 min after administration and those vomiting their dose were treated again with the same dose and observed for a further 30 min.

Patients with recurrent uncomplicated malaria during the follow up period were treated with artemether–lumefantrine (AL) and patients with severe malaria were treated with quinine according to national guidelines [14].
At enrolment demographic data, symptom details and history of anti-malarial medication were collected in a standardized questionnaire. A clinical examination was carried out and up to 5 ml venous blood taken for blood film examination, measurement of haemoglobin concentration (Hb), analysis of G6PD enzyme activity and parasite genotyping. Haemoglobin was measured at the bedside using at Hemocue 201 (Hemocue, Sweden) and G6PD activity measured with an experimental Biosensor™ (Accessbio, USA) following procedures as recommended by the manufacturer and described elsewhere [20, 21].

Patients were examined daily for the first 3 days and thereafter weekly on days 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 and 42. Patients with P. vivax were seen on day 16 rather than day 14, at which time a pill count was undertaken. Patients were encouraged to return to the clinic whenever they experienced signs and symptoms consistent with malaria. At each follow up visit, a full physical examination was undertaken, a symptom questionnaire completed, adverse events assessed and capillary blood collected for repeat blood film examination and Hb measurement. Whenever possible patients who did not return for scheduled follow up visits were contacted and encouraged to return.
Thick and thin films were stained with Giemsa and counted per 200 white blood cells (WBC) or 1000 red blood cells (RBC). Presence and density of gametocytes were also assessed per 200WBC. Slides for microscopy were subject to internal and external quality control checks. 20% of all slides were read twice by two local microscopists, and in case of discordant results reread by a third microscopist (internal QC). All slides collected on enrolment and at the time of recurrent parasitaemia were subject to external quality control by a WHO-certified expert microscopist of the Malaria Research Facility of the Papuan Health and Community Development Foundation (PHCDF) in Timika, Papua Province, Indonesia (external QC).
Due to logistical reasons G6PD activity was only measured at one of the two sites. In New Halfa G6PD activity was measured directly upon sample collection using a handheld Biosensor (AccessBio CareStart, USA) and within 24 h by spectrophotometry (SPINREACT™, Spain) on a Mindray BA-88A (Minddray, China). G6PD normal and deficient controls (Ref: 100 252 0, SPINREACT, Spain), were run daily prior to sample measurement. Patients with P. vivax infection and G6PD activity below 3.0 U/gHb (based on spectrophotometry) were excluded from PQ treatment [19].
DNA was extracted from whole blood with a QIAamp DNA blood macro kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer’s recommendations. Extracted DNA was eluted in 50 μl water and used for the genotyping of recurrent P. falciparum infections following WHO recommendations [22] by characterizing the length polymorphism of the msp1, msp2, and glurp genes in samples collected at day 0 and on the day recurrent parasitaemia was found.

Recrudescence was determined when, for each marker (msp1, msp2, and glurp), at least one identical-length polymorphism was found between samples collected on day 0 and on the day of recurrent infection. A new infection was defined when, for at least one marker, the length polymorphisms were different between the sample collected on day 0 and that collected on the day of recurrent infection. Samples were defined as indeterminate when no marker could be amplified.
The primary endpoint of the study was the rate of recurrence of peripheral asexual parasitaemia within 42 days of follow up. Secondary endpoints were the proportion of patients with parasitaemia or fever on days 1, 2 and 3 and gametocyte carriage following P. falciparum malaria. Response to treatment was defined according to WHO definitions [23] and treatment failures were categorized as early treatment failures (ETF), late parasitological (LPTF) and late clinical treatment failures (LCTF). Patients without asexual parasitaemia by day 42, and who did not previously meet any of the criteria of ETF, LPTF or LCTF were defined as adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR). Fever clearance time (FCT) in patients with a temperature ≥ 37.5 °C at enrolment was defined as the time from drug administration until body temperature (axillary) was below 37.5 °C.
Assuming that AS/SP has a 15% risk of treatment failure at day 42 [24], and that this is unaffected by the addition of a single dose of primaquine, a total of 235 patients with P. falciparum infection determine the efficacy of AS/SP within ± 5% allowing for a loss to follow up rate of 10%. To achieve 80% power, 95% significance level to detect a decrease in P. vivax recurrence from 30 to 5%, following AS/SP plus or minus 14 days of primaquine (26), a sample size of 40 patients would be needed in each treatment arm.

Data were entered using EpiData (version 3.1,EpiData Software, Denmark) and analysed using Stata version 14 (Stata Corp., USA). The primary analysis was an intention to treat (ITT) analyses including all participants enrolled into the study. A secondary analysis was done using a modified intention to treat (mITT) approach in which patients who had received sub-optimal treatment dosage were excluded. Sub-optimal drug dosage was defined as a total dose below 4 mg/kg for AS, below 25 mg/kg for Sulphadoxine and 1.25 mg/kg for pyrimethamine [13, 14]. The sub-optimal PQ dose was defined as below 0.15 mg/kg in the Pf-PQ1 arm and below 2.5 mg/kg total dose of primaquine in the Pv-PQ14 arm [25].

Normally distributed data were compared using Student’s t-test, the t-test for paired samples or one-way analysis of variance, and non-parametric comparisons were made using the Mann–Whitney U test or Wilcoxon signed rank test for paired samples. Proportions were examined using χ2 with Yates’ correction or Fisher’s exact test. Correlations were assessed using the Pearson test for correlated proportions for normal distributed variables and the Spearman rank test for non-normal distributed variables. Efficacy endpoints were assessed by survival analysis, in which the cumulative risk of failure was calculated by the Kaplan–Meier product limit formula [26]. The equality of survivor functions was tested using the log-rank test (exponential scores test).

The results of the survival analysis were adjusted according to parasite genotyping results of the admission and recurrent parasitaemia. Patients with recurrent parasitaemia due to a different species identified on admission or a PCR confirmed re-infection were censored at the day of occurrence. Following a conservative approach indeterminate PCR results were considered treatment failures. Parasite clearance was presented as the proportion of patients with microscopy negative results within the first 3 days, missing data were treated as suggested by the World Wide Antimalarial Resistance Network (WWARN) [27].

Safety analysis included the risks of a drop in Hb concentration greater than 25%, severe anaemia (Hb < 7 g/dl), requiring a blood transfusion, and the proportion of patients with adverse and serious adverse events. Haematological response was assessed from the fractional fall in Hb between baseline and days 2, 7 and 16. The effect of malaria species, peripheral parasitaemia, G6PD activity and total dose of primaquine on the degree of haemolysis was assessed by multivariable linear regression using a backward selection of variables [28]. The performance of the Biosensor was assessed using standard formulae [29, 30] in which the adjusted male median (AMM) was considered 100% G6PD activity [15].
The characteristics of the S. pombe strains used in this study are listed in Table ​Table11 . Media were prepared according to reference 40. The hda1+, clr3+, and clr6+ genes were tagged at their endogenous locus, and the clr3+ gene was deleted by the method described in reference 2. Pom152-green fluorescent protein (GFP) was constructed according to reference 26. The resulting PCR products were integrated into the genome of the haploid strain FY367 or FY1180 or of the diploid strain Hu114. PCR and subsequent sequencing of the PCR products confirmed correct integration.

A ClustalW multiple alignment of HDACs was performed with Mac Vector 6.5 (Genetics Computer Group, Inc.) by using the “blosum” matrix and a gap penalty of 50.0. A total of 19 HDAC amino acid sequences were aligned. The resulting dendrogram showing the phylogenetic relationships is depicted in Fig. ​Fig.1A,1A, and the sequence alignment is presented in Fig. ​Fig.1B.1B. The following protein amino acid sequences (species and accession numbers follow in parentheses) were used: SpHda1 (S. pombe, AL021046), ScHOS2 (S. cerevisiae, X91837), SpClr6 (S. pombe, AFO64206), ScRPD3 (S. cerevisiae, P32561), hHDAC2 (Homo sapiens, NP_001518), hHDAC1 (H. sapiens, Q13547), DmHDAC1 (Drosophila melanogaster, AF026949), hHDAC3 (H. sapiens, AF039703), bACUC1 (A. aeolicus, D70388), ScHOS1 (S. cerevisiae, Z49219_23), SpClr3 (S. pombe, AFO64207), ScHDA1 (S. cerevisiae, Z71297), mHDA2 (Mus musculus, AF006603), hHDAC6 (H. sapiens, AF132609), mHDA1 (M. musculus, AF006602), hHDAC5 (H. sapiens, AF132608), hHDAC4 (H. sapiens, AF132607), bACUC2 (A. aeolicus, A70481), and ScHOS3 (S. cerevisiae, U43503).
Coimmunoprecipitations (co-IPs) were carried out according to reference 17. Lysis of log-phase cells with glass beads and subsequent co-IPs were performed in radioimmunoprecipitation assay (RIPA) buffer or a nonionic general lysis buffer (50 mM HEPES-KOH [pH 7.5], 140 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1% Triton X-100, Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail from Boehringer Mannheim). Preclearing and co-IP were conducted with protein A coupled to Sepharose beads. Immunoprecipitates were obtained with rabbit anti-myc (Research Laboratories), mouse antihemagglutinin (anti-HA) (Boehringer Mannheim), or rabbit anti-HA (Upstate) antibodies. The immunoprecipitated material was subjected to Western analysis
S. pombe cells were prepared for immunofluorescence microscopy according to the formaldehyde fixation procedure with some modifications (16). Log-phase cultures were incubated for 5 to 30 min in yeast extract with supplements (YES) plus 1.2 M sorbitol before harvest. In most cases, PEMAL (PEM [100 mM PIPES, 1 mM EGTA, 1 mM MgSO4, pH 6.9] plus 5% or 0.03% milk, 0.1 M l-lysine HCl, cleared by 30 min of centrifugation at 20,000 × g) was used instead of PEMBAL (PEM plus 1% bovine serum albumin [essential fatty acids and globulin-free sigma] and 100 mM lysine hydrochloride, pH 6.9). The following primary antibodies were used: rabbit anti-myc, mouse anti-myc (Sigma), mouse anti-HA, mouse anti-GFP (Molecular Probes), and rabbit anti-Nop1 (21). Clr6 antibodies were raised in rabbits against the N-terminal peptide MGFGKKKVSYFYD and C-terminal peptide IAKEEFTIMDERV. The sera were affinity purified against the peptides, mixed 1:1, and used for immunostaining. Fluorescein isothiocyanate- or Texas red-conjugated secondary antibodies were purchased from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories or Sigma. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) experiments were carried out with the pRS314 probe to detect centromeres and the probe for rDNA loci according to reference 9. The c1555 probe was used to detect the entire mat2/3 region in S. pombe (33). Cells were visualized with a Zeiss Axioskop II microscope equipped with a Hamamatsu C4742-95 charge-coupled device camera. A z-series digital confocal deconvolution analysis with Openlab software, version 2:09 (Improvision), was performed with 0.2- to 0.3-μm sample z-series spacing and nearest-neighbor deconvolution. An object magnification of ×100 and a lens aperture of 1.4 were used.

Western analysis of bulk histones.
S. pombe strains were grown at 36°C overnight, and crude histones were prepared, separated, and Western blotted according to reference 8. Antibody incubation was performed according to manufacturer's (Upstate) instructions. Antibodies against histone H3 acetylated at position K9 or K14 or histone H4 acetylated at position K8 or K12 were purchased from Upstate. Antibodies against histone H4 acetylated at positions K5 and K16 were as described by reference 43 or purchased from Serotec. An antibody against the C-terminal part of histone H3 was used (A.Verreault, unpublished data). The band intensity was quantified with Fujifilm Image Gauge software. The signal was normalized to the loading control anti-histone H3 or Coomassie staining of the histones.

ChIPs.
Chromatin immunoprecipitations (ChIPs) were performed according to reference 9 with antibodies against histone H3 acetylated at position K9 or K14 or against histone H4 acetylated at position K8 or K12 (Upstate) or with mouse antibodies directed against the myc epitope (Sigma). The immunoprecipitated DNA was amplified and labeled with 5′-GAGGGGATGAAAAATCCCA-3′ and 5′-TTCGACAACAGGATTACGAC-3′ as ura4 primers in a PCR with [α-32P]dCTP. PCR products were separated on 4% polyacrylamide gels, detected with Fujifilm Phosphorimager FLA3000, and quantified with Fujifilm Image Gauge software.
The Open Payments database allows for physician-level industry payment calculations and aggregation for analysis of broader characteristics by specialty. We performed a retrospective analysis of the most recent (December 2014) publicly available release of Open Payments data on industry payments (>$10 or $100 in aggregate annually) to identified physicians made between August 1, 2013 and December 31, 2013. CMS excludes resident and manufacturer employee physicians. The data released also include payments to teaching hospitals, but these are beyond the scope of this article. Payments to recipient physicians were available in both identified and de-identified databases. Identified physician payments included records of payments or other transfer of value (‘physician payments’) to a specific physician and included physician specialty designation. ‘Recipient physicians’ include both allopathic and osteopathic specialties as well as other practitioners designated as physicians by CMS. We further limited our analysis to allopathic and osteopathic physician specialties that could be matched with the AMA masterfile count of active physicians17. Data were aggregated by physician specialty type (medical, surgical, and other) and by specialty:

medical specialties: allergy & immunology, dermatology, family medicine & general practice, cardiovascular disease, gastroenterology, internal medicine, pediatrics, and pediatric cardiology;

surgical specialties: colorectal surgery, neurosurgery, obstetrics & gynecology, ophthalmology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, orthopedic surgery, otolaryngology, plastic surgery, surgery (general), thoracic surgery, and urology; and,

other specialties: anesthesiology, emergency medicine, neurology, pathology, psychiatry, radiology, and other.

A listing of the specialty groupings is provided to delineate specialty taxonomy used for this analysis (see eTable 1). Records include information on reporting manufacturers, physicians, payments, associated drug or device, and ownership interests.

We characterized payments by ‘type’ (general or research). General payments include all forms of payment other than for research activities, which are classified under research payments (defined below). General payments were also characterized by ‘form’ of payment or the modality used to transfer payment, including: cash or cash equivalent (‘cash’); in-kind items and services (‘in-kind’); dividend, profit or other return on investment (‘ROI’); or stock, stock option or other ownership interest (‘ownership interest’). General payments are further classified by ‘nature’ of payment or the reason the general payment was made. CMS provides descriptive titles for each nature of payment classification and has examples of payment types that were developed with stakeholder input available on their website (available at: https://www.cms.gov/OpenPayments/About/Natures-of-Payment.html, accessed June 15, 2015). We have provided an adapted version of the CMS descriptions in eTable 2.

Research payments include any direct compensation, funding for coordination or implementation, or study participant expense payment associated with research activities1. Research is defined in the regulations as “a systematic investigation designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge relating broadly to public health, including behavioral and social-sciences research. This term encompasses basic and applied research and product development1.” Research-related payments are reported separately from general payments due to the complexity of research programs1. In addition, certain research payments qualify for delayed publication if they are related to new, additional applications of, or clinical investigations regarding a drug, biologic, device or medical supply1. Research payments are not required to report an expenditure category (similar to nature of payment for general payments) because there are often multiple, although the option to report such a category is available. 91% of research payment records did not specify an expenditure category; therefore we did not further explore this classification. We present summarized aggregate data, data by specialty type, and data by physician specialty (organized by specialty type). Payment characteristics analyzed included number of payment reports, value of payments, and the per-physician median and mean payment amount.

Lastly, we characterized physician and immediate family member ownership interests in manufacturers. ‘Ownership interests’ include any ownership or investment interests of physicians or immediate family members in a reporting entity (applicable manufacturer or group purchasing organization) required to report payments1. Ownership interest include stocks, stock options, partnership shares, limited liability company membership(s), loans, bond or other financial instruments secured by the reporting entity; notable exclusions include ownership interest received as compensation (until exercised), as part of a retirement plan, or interest in a publicly traded security or mutual fund1. Unless listed under general payments, ownership interests must be held within the defined reporting period but are not necessarily transferred. To characterize ownership and investment interest data, we utilized CMS terms “amount invested” and “value of interest” to delineate the original amount of the interest holding or transfer of value and the “cumulative value” of that ownership interest in the reporting entity at the end of the reporting period, respectively18. Ownership interest characteristics analyzed included number of ownership interests held, and the total and per-physician median dollar amount invested and value of interest.

We analyzed how payment and ownership interest characteristics vary between specialty types and across physician specialties within each type using Pearson Chi-square test and the Kruskal-Wallis test where applicable. We compared the number of physicians receiving payments to the total number of active physicians in each specialty in 201217 to estimate the proportion of physicians receiving payment and holding ownership interest.
1,3,5-Tribromobenzene (98%), trimethylsilyl-acetylene (98%), trimethylsilyl azide (94%), and diethylamine (99%) were purchased from Alfa Aesar (Ward Hill, MA, USA). Sodium nitrite (97%), phosphate buffered saline (PBS) tablets, and copper(II) chloride dihydrate were obtained from EMD Chemicals (Gibbstown, NJ, USA). Glutathione (98%) was purchased from AMRESCO (Solon, OH, USA). Low molecular weight chitosan (96% deacetylated) and copper(I) iodide (99.5%) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA). Deionized water (18.2 MΩ·cm) was obtained from a Millipore Direct-Q water purification system (EMD Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA). Ultrahigh purity nitrogen and oxygen gases were supplied by Airgas (Denver, CO, USA). Bis(triphenylphosphine)-palladium(II) dichloride (98%) was purchased from TCI America (Portland, OR, USA). All materials were used as received without any further purification.
Powder X-ray diffraction (pXRD) measurements and ATR-FTIR were used to examine the incorporation of Cu-BTTri within chitosan. All pXRD measurements were made using a Bruker D-8 Discover DaVinci X-ray diffractometer (Cu Kα X-ray source, line focus) (Bruker, Billerica, MA, USA). A 0.6 mm divergent slit was placed on the primary beam side and a high-resolution energy-dispersive LYNXEYE-XE-T detector on the diffracted beam side during the XRD studies. XRD measurements were performed with Soller slits on the primary and diffracted beam side (2.5° separation). The instrument alignment was tested using the NIST 1976b SRM. All measurements were performed at 4−50θ with a step count of 1.0. ATR-FTIR spectra were obtained in the range of 600−4000 cm−1 on a Nicolet 6700 FTIR spectrometer equipped with a Smart iTR ATR sampling module and ZnSe crystal plate (Thermo Electron Corporation, Madison, WI, USA). Images of chitosan/ Cu-BTTri membranes were acquired using a JEOL JSM-6500F scanning electron microscope with an accelerating voltage of 10.0 kV and a working distance of 10.0 mm (JEOL USA Inc., MA, USA). All samples were placed under vacuum and coated with 20 nm of gold prior to runs. Images were taken at magnifications of 250×, 1000×, 2000×, and 3000×. All data were processed using TEAM Software. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was performed under nitrogen on a TA Instruments Q500 thermogravimetric analyzer at a rate of 5 °C/min from 25 to 500 °C (New Castle, DE, USA), and data were processed using TA Instruments Universal Analysis 2000.
1,3,5-Tris(1H-1,2,3-triazol-5-yl)-benzene (H3BTTri) was synthesized following the method reported by Demessence et al. and suspended (225 mg) in 10 mL of DMF.28 This mixture was treated with 0.1 M hydrochloric acid to dissolve the triazole, and then copper(II) chloride dihydrate (383 mg) was added to the solution. After thorough agitation to ensure dissolution of all solids, the mixture was heated at 100 °C for 3 d to form Cu-BTTri-DMF as a dark violet precipitate. Cu-BTTri-DMF was isolated by centrifugation and washed with DMF and Millipore water, then heated in water at 80 °C for 3 d to produce Cu-BTTri-H2O as a light purple solid. This solid was isolated by centrifugation, dried, and subsequently characterized by ATR-FTIR and pXRD.

Preparation of Chitosan Membranes.
Chitosan (2.5 g) was dissolved in 100 mL of 1% acetic acid, and the resulting water-soluble chitosan acetate was isolated by lyophilization. To prepare chitosan membranes, chitosan acetate (180 mg) was dissolved in 6 mL of Millipore water, followed by the addition of Cu-BTTri-H2O (20 mg) to form a suspension. This mixture was allowed to air-dry within a PTFE mold, and the prepared film was treated twice with 100 mL of 250 mM pH 8.0 sodium phosphate buffer to produce a flexible hydrated sheet. This material was washed with 5 × 100 mL of Millipore water and subsequently punched into smaller 13 mm diameter membranes. Chitosan control membranes were prepared without Cu-BTTri-H2O, following an otherwise identical procedure.

Synthesis of GSNO.
GSNO was prepared using a protocol adapted from a previously reported synthesis.29 1.53 g of glutathione was suspended in 8 mL of water at 0 °C, followed by the addition of 2.5 mL of 2 M hydrochloric acid and 0.345 g of sodium nitrite. This mixture was stirred at 0 °C for 40 min, and then the precipitated solid was isolated by filtration and washed with ice-cold water, acetone, and diethyl ether. The resulting light pink powder was placed under vacuum to remove residual solvent and stored at −20 °C in the absence of light. Subsequent to synthesis, an aqueous solution of GSNO was analyzed by ICP-AES, where no copper was detected. UV−vis: λ 335 (π → π*), 545 nm (nN → π*).
Water swelling of chitosan and chitosan/Cu-BTTri membranes was determined gravimetrically by obtaining their dry masses (Wd), followed by immersion in Millipore water for 24 h. Samples were then withdrawn and reweighed (Ww) after the removal of excess water. The following calculation was then applied to determine the overall water uptake and swelling ratio of each sample.30

% swelling=Ww−WdWd×10
Measurement of NO Formation.
NO release measurements were obtained using Sievers chemiluminescence-based nitric oxide analyzers (NOA 280i, GE Analytical, Boulder, CO, USA). Calibration was performed with ultrahigh purity nitrogen (0 ppm of NO) and 45 ppm of NO/nitrogen. Prior to use, dry membranes were immersed in Millipore water overnight to produce 13 mm diameter hydrated membranes. In each experiment, a single chitosan/Cu-BTTri (n ≥ 3) or chitosan control (n ≥ 3) membrane was suspended in 5 mL of deoxygenated PBS (pH 7.4) in a custom analysis cell connected directly to an NO analyzer under a constant flow/purge of nitrogen gas and protected from exposure to light. Baseline was acquired for several minutes, and then an aqueous GSNO solution was injected into the cell to produce an initial concentration of 20 μM. After GSNO injection, each experiment was allowed to continue until NO detection returned to the baseline level. As an additional control, the NO release profile from the decomposition of GSNO in the absence of membranes was also obtained. In all cases, gas phase NO concentration (ppb/ppm) was used to determine total NO release (mol) using an instrument-specific calibration constant obtained from the reduction of sodium nitrite. Following each experiment, the membrane was removed and the buffer solution was analyzed for copper content using ICP-AES. To evaluate reuse of the chitosan/Cu-BTTri membranes, each previously tested membrane was resuspended in Millipore water overnight and the previously described experimental procedure was repeated.

Mass Spectrometry Analysis.
The products formed following exposure of Cu-BTTri to GSNO were determined by suspension of approximately 20 mg of chitosan/Cu-BTTri membrane in a 1 mM solution of GSNO/Millipore water. The experiment was protected from light and maintained at 37 °C until disappearance of the characteristic red/pink color of GSNO. A control experiment was similarly conducted using chitosan membrane without Cu-BTTri (intended to reflect thermal decomposition of GSNO), while a second control experiment involved exposure of GSNO to 365 nm UV light using a 100 W Blak-Ray B-100AP UV lamp (UVP, Upland, CA, USA). The solutions were subsequently analyzed using an Agilent 6224 LC−MS (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA). The instrument was equipped with an Agilent multimode ionization (MMI) source capable of electrospray ionization (ESI) and atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI). For all the performed analyses, ESI in positive polarity was employed with the mass measurement range set at 70−3200 m/z. The sample solutions were introduced into the ion source using flow injection at a flow rate of 0.22 mL/min via the ESI nebulizer using a mobile phase consisting of 80/20 water/acetonitrile with 0.1% formic acid. The ion source conditions were as follows: capillary voltage, 3000 V; fragmentor voltage, 200 V; skimmer voltage, 60 V; drying gas temperature, 310 °C; drying gas flow-rate (nitrogen gas), 10 L/min; and nebulizer pressure, 45 psi. All collected data were analyzed with Agilent MassHunter Qualitative Analysis software (B.07.00).

Statistical Analysis.
Data are reported as the mean ± standard deviation of a minimum of triplicate measurements, unless otherwise noted.
MDA-MB-231 cells were grown in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% (v/v) fetal bovine serum and 100 units/ml penicillin G and streptomycin sulfate. Cultures were maintained at 37 °C and 5% CO2. Cells were plated on sterile glass 25 mm diameter cover slips in 6-well plates the day before imaging.

The majority of experiments reported here were completed with calcium indicator dyes, but some experiments used calcium biosensor YC3.60 [16] as an alternative. YC3.60 was introduced into MDA-MB-231 by adenovirus transduction. Cells were grown to approximately 80% confluence on 25-mm glass cover slips as described above. Growth medium was removed and replaced with DMEM supplemented with 2% (v/v) fetal bovine serum and Adenovirus YC3.60 using a multiplicity of infection of 500. Cells were incubated for approximately 4 hours with the virus before it was removed and replaced with the 10% FBS growth medium described above. Transduced cells were grown for approximately 48 hrs prior to use in imaging experiments.
In experiments with Fura-2, cells were loaded with 1 μM Fura-2 acetoxymethyl ester (Molecular Probes Inc.) by incubating for 15 min at 37°C and 5% CO2 in Krebs Ringers Bicarbonate HEPES buffer (pH 7.4) supplemented with 10 mM D-(+)-glucose (KRBH10) and 0.015% Pluronic F127 (Molecular Probes Inc). Fluo-4 (Molecular Probes Inc.) was substituted for Fura-2 in tests with that indicator. In some experiments, cells were incubated with 10 μM BAPTA-AM (Molecular Probes Inc.) for 15 minutes in KRBH10 plus 0.015% Pluronic F127 at 37°C and 5% CO2, followed by removal of the BAPTA-AM loading solution, and cells were loaded with Fura-2 as above.

Cover slips were placed in a 37°C microperifusion chamber mounted on the specimen stage of an inverted fluorescence microscope. Cells were continuously superfused with KRBH10 (4 ml/min) at 37°C and treatments, including resveratrol (R5010, Sigma, St. Louis, MO), were introduced through the perfusion system. Experiments with Fura-2 were completed with an Olympus IX81 inverted microscope (Olympus America, Center Valley, PA, USA). Fura-2 dual excitation and emission was accomplished using 340- and 380-nm excitation filters and a 510 nm emission filter, and cells were visualized with an Olympus UPlan FLN 40X 1.3 NA oil immersion objective. Light was supplied by a Lambda XL (Sutter Instrument Company, Novato, CA, USA) using a variable aperture to achieve 65–75% attenuation. Digital images (25–50 ms exposure) were recorded with a Hamamatsu EM charge-coupled device camera (Hamamatsu Photonics, Japan) at 10 second intervals.

Cells that were loaded with Fluo-4 or expressed YC3.60 were visualized on a Nikon TE-2000U inverted microscope. Fluo-4 excitation (470 nm) and emission (525 nm) was accomplished with a GFP cube (Chroma Technologies) and cells were visualized with a Nikon Plan Fluor 20X objective. Cells expressing FRET biosensor YC3.60 were visualized as described previously [17] with minor deviations. A Nikon Super Fluor 40X 1.30 NA oil immersion objective was used with 90% light attenuation by neutral density filters. Excitation was at 440 nm and dual emission ratio imaging at 485 and 535 nm was accomplished with a high speed filter wheel (Sutter Instrument Co., Novato, CA). An Xcite 120 light source (EXFO Life Science Industries, Mississauga, ON, Canada) was used for Fluo-4 and YC3.60 experiments. Digital images (200–250 ms exposure) were captured with a 16-bit Cascade 650 digital camera (Roper Instruments) at 10-s intervals.

Imaging data acquisition and analyses on both microscope systems were accomplished using MetaFluor software (Universal Imaging Corp) and OriginPro 7E (OriginLab Corp.). Emission intensities were background subtracted. Fura-2 data are expressed as the ratio of 340/380 normalized to average resting values in the 60 seconds prior to the application of the first experimental treatment. Data from YC3.60 experiments are expressed as the fold-change in ratio of FRET acceptor and donor emission (535/485 nm ratio) normalized to resting values. Fluo-4 data are expressed as fold-change in emission intensity relative to resting values. All experiments were replicated at least twice, and means and standard errors were calculated using pooled data from relevant experiments.
Wogonin was purchased from Guangzhou IDC (China) and MG132 (carbobenzoxy-Leu-Leu-leucinal) was obtained from (Beyotime, China). The following antibodies were used: Fbw7(Cdc4, H-300) and p-c-Myc (Thr 58) (Santa Cruz, USA); c-Myc, GSK3β, AIF (apoptosis inducing factor, Proteintech Group, Inc., USA); HDAC1, HDAC2, Skp2, Survivin, Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2), β-Actin (Boster, China); Mcl-1 (myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1), XIAP(X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein, Bioss, China); Cytochome c (KeyGEN, China); PARP (poly ADP-ribose polymerase, Sino Biological Inc., China).
The human pulmonary adenocarcinoma cell line A549 was obtained from the Cell Bank of the Animal Experiment Center, North School Region, Sun Yat-Sen University. The cells used in the experiments were maintained in our laboratory in RPMI 1640 medium with 10% fetal bovine serum (Sijiqing, China) at 37°C and 5% CO2.
Cells harvested with trypsin were seeded into 96-well plates at a density of 1×104 per well. After overnight incubation, the culture medium was removed and the cells were incubated with different concentrations of wogonin. After exposure to wogonin for 24, 48 or 72 h the cells were incubated with MTT at 37°C for an additional 4 h. This allowed mitochondrial dehydrogenase to convert MTT into insoluble formazan crystals. The culture medium was then discarded, and 100 µL of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) was added to each well to dissolve the formazan crystals. The absorption of solubilized formazan was measured at 490 nm using a EL340 microplate reader (Bio-Tek. Instruments, Winooske, VT).
A549 cells were stained with a DAPI (4′, 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) staining kit (KeyGEN, China). After exposure to graded concentrations of wogonin for 48 h, the cells were washed and incubated with a DAPI working solution (1–2 µg/mL) for 15 min at 37°C. The cells were then rinsed with methanol and Buffer A (60% glycerol in 10 mM phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, pH7.6)) was added to the suspension. A549 cells were viewed using an Eclipse Ti Nikon microscope (Nikon, Japan).
The mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm) of A549 cells was measured usimg a fluorescent, lipophilic, cationic probe, JC-1 (Beyotime, China), according to the manufacturer’s directions. Briefly, cells exposed to wogonin were incubated with 1X JC-1 staining solution for 20 min at 37°C. They were then rinsed twice with JC-1 staining buffer and images were taken with an Eclipse Ti Nikon microscope (Nikon, Japan).
Cells were labeled with FITC-labeled Annexin V and propidium iodide (PI) using an Annexin V-FITC apoptosis detection kit (KeyGEN BioTECH, China), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Briefly, after 48 h exposure to different concentrations of wogonin, the cells were washed with cold PBS and resuspended in 1X binding buffer. Aliquots of 105 cells were mixed with 5 µL of Annexin V-FITC and 5 µL of PI for 15 min at room temperature in the dark. Fluorescence (530 nm) was detected by flow cytometry (FACS Aria, BD Biosciences, USA) within 1 h.
Quantitative RT-PCR was undertaken using a SYBR Green reporter. A549 cells exposed to wogonin were washed with PBS and total RNA was purified by using RNAiso Plus (TAKARA, Japan). The resultant RNA was first reverse transcribed into cDNA using a PrimeScript® RT Master Mix kit (TAKARA, Japan). Gene-specific primers were combined with SYBR® Premix Ex Taq™ (TAKARA, Japan) and amplified using an ABI 7500 real-time PCR machine (Applied Biosystems, USA). All qPCR reactions were performed independently on five samples. The relative mRNA expression was calculated using the 2−ΔΔCt method. The primer sequences used are listed in Table 1.
Cells washed with PBS were lysed with RIPA (50 mM Tris (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, 1% NP-40, 0.5% sodium deoxycholate, 0.1% SDS, sodium orthovanadate, sodium fluoride, EDTA and leupeptin, (Beyotime, China) supplemented with protease inhibitor PMSF (Beyotime, China). Cytoplasmic proteins were extracted using a Nuclear and Cytoplasmic Protein Extraction Kit (KeyGEN BioTECH, China).

The soluble protein concentration was determined with a BCA protein assay kit (Beyotime, China). The cell lysates were boiled for 5 min in loading buffer and separated on an SDS-PAGE gel. After electrophoresis, the proteins were transferred to a PVDF membrane (Millipore, USA). The membranes were blocked with nonfat milk, probed with various primary antibodies and HRP-conjugated secondary antibodies, and visualized with enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) detection reagents (Beyotime, China).
Statistical analyses was undertaken using SPSS version 17.0 software. Results are expressed as means and standard errors (Mean ± SEM) from at least three independent experiments. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to determine statistical significance between groups. Values of P<0.05 were considered statistically significant.
Pancreatic cyst fluid samples used in this study were obtained from Dr. Brian Haab’s laboratory at the Van Andel Research Institute (Grand Rapids, MI). Lectins for M-LAC column were purchased from Vector laboratories (Burlingame, CA). Capture select (R) ligand with specificity for albumin proteins and protein G with affinity for immunoglobulin’s (IgA, IgM, and IgG) were obtained from BAC. B. V., Netherlands and Life Technologies, Inc. (Carlsbad, CA) respectively. POROS 20 R1 and POROS beads for conjugation were also purchased from Applied Biosystems (Framingham, MA). Sequencing grade modified trypsin was purchased from Promega (Madison, WI). HPLC-MS grade water, formic acid, acetonitrile and other buffer reagents were all purchased from Thermo Fisher Scientific (Waltham, MA).
All pancreatic cyst samples involved in this study were collected in compliance with the guidelines of the local Institutional Review Boards at the University of Michigan Medical Center, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the University of Arizona Medical Center, the University of Pittsburg Medical Center and Ospedale Sacro Cuore-Don Calabria Negrar, Italy. Due to limited amount of materials, pancreatic cyst fluid samples for glycoproteomics were pooled into mucinous subtypes (potential malignant lesions) which includes; intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN) and mucinous cystic neoplasms (MCN) and non-mucinous subtypes (benign lesions) comprise of serous cystadenomas (SC) and pseudocysts (PC) for glycoproteomic studies. Mucin-like proteins, fats and other particulate matter were depleted from cyst fluid samples as follows; 200 μL volume of each pool was mixed with equal volumes of 20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.4 in 1.5 mL centrifuge tubes. Samples were vortexed briefly and centrifuged for 15 minutes at 6,000 × g. Supernatants were carefully separated from precipitated materials into a conditioned (equal ratio water/ethanol mixture) MWCO 3kDa micron centrifugal filter (Millipore, Billerica, MA) to buffer exchange with HP MLAC binding buffer (25 mM Tris, 0.5 M NaCl, 1 mM MnCl2, 1 mM CaCl2 and 0.05% sodium azide, pH 7.4). This was followed by BCA protein assay and immediate storage at −80°C until glycoproteomic analysis. Samples were thawed not more than twice for each experiment.
200 μg each of mucinous subtypes and non-mucinous subtypes were fractionated and enriched for glycoproteins on an HP-MLAC platform as previously described 12. Briefly, high abundance proteins (IgG and albumin) were depleted followed by the HP-MLAC glycoprotein enrichment and sample desalting all on-line; preventing sample degradation and sample loses. The on-line sample preparation was performed on a 2D HPLC System (Shimadzu, Columbia, MD) equipped with three valves to allow for switching among the three columns connected serially. 0.1 M glycine, pH 2.5 was the elution buffer for POROS protein G and Capture select(R) ligand albumin-IgG columns. For the HP-MLAC glycoprotein affinity column, 0.1 M acetic acid pH 2.5 was used to elute M-LAC bound proteins. POROS 50 R1 reversed-phase PEEK column was used to desalt unbound and bound fractions collected. For desalting, solvent A was made of 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in milli-q water and that of B was composed of 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile. 70% solvent B step gradient was used to elute bound proteins on the POROS R1 column. Unbound protein fractions (no specificity for M-LAC column) were collected separately from M-LAC bound fractions. All fractions collected were speed vacuum to dryness.
20 μg of each fraction was loaded on 10% Mini-PROTEAN® TGX™ Precast Gels and run on a Mini-PROTEAN Tetra cell system (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) for 40 minutes at a constant voltage of 200V. Gels were stained after electrophoresis following manufacturer’s instructions with SimplyBlue ™ SafeStain (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Each fraction was excised into 10 separate bands and processed in a low binding centrifuge tubes as earlier described15, with some modifications. Briefly, each band was cut into 1mm × 1mm × 1mm pieces and destained as follows; 500 μL of 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.0, 500 μL acetonitrile in that order for up to 5 cycles. In each instance, addition of the appropriate solvent, 5 minutes vortexing, short spin on a bench-top centrifuge and aspiration of solvent to waste were performed in a sequence. After the aspiration of acetonitrile in the last cycle, dehydrated gel pieces were dried in a speed vacuum, reduced at 56°C for 30 minutes with 0.5 M dithiothreitol (DTT) in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.0 to a final concentration of 25 mM, and alkylated with 0.5 M iodoacetamide in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.0 to a final concentration of 50 mM at room temperature for 30 minutes in the dark. Gel pieces were washed with 500 μL 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate 3 times and dehydrated with 500 μL acetonitrile. 50 μL of freshly prepared 0.04 μg/μL of sequencing grade trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI) prepared in 25mM ammonium bicarbonate containing 3% acetonitrile (v/v) pH 8.0 was added to the dehydrated gel pieces. Low binding centrifuge tubes containing gel pieces were incubated on ice for 45 minutes to allow for trypsin enzyme absorption. Excess trypsin was aspirated after 45 minutes and enough digestion buffer (25 mM ammonium bicarbonate containing 3% acetonitrile (v/v) pH 8.0) was added to cover gel pieces and incubated at 37°C for approximately 20 hr. Peptides were extracted into labeled low binding centrifuge tubes in the following fashion; 200 μL of 5% formic acid/ 50% acetonitrile twice and 200 μL 100% acetonitrile once. Aspirated supernatants were pooled for each individual excised band and dried completely in a speed vacuum. Dried peptides were constituted in 20 μL 0.1% formic acid in HPLC grade water prior to nano-LC-MS/MS analysis.
In-gel tryptic digested peptides were subjected to nano-LC-MS/MS analysis on an LTQ-Orbitrap XL mass spectrometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) equipped with an Ultimate 3000 HPLC (LC Packings-Dionex, Marlton, NJ, USA). A 75μm reversed phase C18 column was packed in-house using a slurry of 5-μ particle, 200-Å pore size Magic C18 stationary phase (Michrom Bioresources, Auburn, CA) into a 150mm × 75mm i.d. capillary column (New Objective, Woburn, MA). The peptides were loaded onto the C18 capillary column using an auto sampler and desalted for 30 mins at a flow-rate of 300nl/min in isocratic mode. The following constituted the mobile phase buffers; mobile phase A consisted of 0.1% formic acid in HPLC grade water and mobile phase B consisted of 0.1% formic acid in HPLC grade acetonitrile. Flow rate was automatically adjusted to 200 nL/min for gradient separation of desalted peptides using the following gradient method; 5% B buffer to 40% B buffer for 80 mins; 40% B buffer to 90% B buffer for 15 mins; 90% B buffer to 2% B buffer for 5mins. The total time for nano-LC-MS/MS analysis was 140 mins. The mass spectrometer was operated in a data dependent fashion; eight most abundant precursor ions selected from the MS spectrum were MS/MS fragmented via collision induced dissociation (CID) using an isolation width of 3.0 mass unit. A resolution, R of 60,000 was used to acquire each full MS scan over a mass range of 400-2000 m/z. Dynamic exclusion was set with 1 repeating counts (repeat duration of 30s, exclusion list of 150, and exclusion duration of 30s, exclusion mass width 0.55 m/z low and 1.55 m/z high).
Protein identification was obtained by searching the generated MS/MS spectra against Uniprot annotated human database (release 2012_1; 34,157 entries) using Thermo Fisher Proteome Discoverer 1.3 suite (Thermo Electron Corp, San Jose, CA). Both MASCOT (Matrix Science) version 2.3 and SEQUEST (Thermo Electron) algorithms present in the Thermo Fischer Proteome Discoverer suite were used simultaneously to perform the search. This approach was utilized because it is shown that combined algorithms increases the number of proteins identified and reduces false positive identification in shot gun proteomics.16-17 Confidence in identification was enhanced by applying the reverse database with a false discovery rate (FDR) targeted at 1% at the peptide level. The following are the other search parameters used; 2 maximum missed cleavages, enzyme was set at full trypsin, carbamidomethylation on cysteine as static modification, precursor ion mass tolerance and fragment ion mass tolerance were set at 5ppm and 0.8Da respectively. PANTHER (Protein ANalysis THrough Evolutionary Relationships) database (http://pantherdb.org/) was used to determine gene ontology (GO) Molecular Function. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, Gene A La Cart (provided by www.genecards.org) version 3.10 was used to assign gene symbols as well as protein disease relationships. Novoseek (www.novoseek.com), a biomedical text mining tool was used to acquire disease relevance to gene scores.
10% Mini-PROTEAN® TGX™ Precast Gels (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) and Tris/Glycine SDS running buffer were used to resolve 5ug of proteins for each sample. Blotting was performed on Bio-Rad’s Transfer-Blot Turbo transfer system for 10mins. The primary antibody (rabbit polyclonal, 1:500) was purchased from Novus Biologicals, Littleton, CO. Goat anti Rabbit HRP (System Biosciences, Mountain View, CA) was used as the secondary antibody. Immuno-detected proteins were visualized using ECL Western Blotting reagents (GE Healthcare), and images were captured with a Fluorchem SP system (Alpha Innotech, Santa Clara, CA
PaHNL was purchased from Sigma and purified, the isoforms were separated, and isoform 1 (PaHNL1) was crystallized as previously described (10). Crystallization drops (typical reservoir composition: 20% PEG 4000, 16% 2-propanol, and 0.1 M Na-Ada, pH 7.0) sometimes contained a monoclinic crystal form of space group P21, not readily distinguishable from the triclinic crystal form obtained in most of the crystallization experiments and used for the initial structure determination by multiple wavelength anomalous dispersion (10).
Data sets of the monoclinic crystal form (unliganded and soaked with mandelonitrile) were collected at EMBL beamlines BW7B and X11 (DESY, Hamburg, Germany) equipped with a mar345 imaging plate detector at cryogenic temperatures. Prior to flash freezing, crystals where briefly soaked in a solution derived from the mother liquor by replacing half of the 2-propanol with 8% 2-methyl-2,4-pentanediol and adding 7% PEG 400 as additional cryoprotectant. Soaking conditions for incubation with the natural substrate were as follows: The crystals were transferred to 12 μL of the cryo solution. Then 1 μL of a racemic mixture of (R)- and (S)-mandelonitrile containing less than 3% contaminating benzaldehyde (kindly provided by DSM Fine Chemicals) was added with a syringe. After 2 min of soaking time the crystal was flash frozen in liquid nitrogen. The crystals belonged to space group P21 with cell parameters of a = 69.1 Å, b = 93.7 Å, c = 87.3 Å, and β = 106.4°. Data were processed with the DENZO and SCALEPACK program suite (19). Native Patterson maps and self-rotation functions were consistent with the presence of a noncrystallographic axis almost parallel to the crystallographic 21 screw axis resulting in a translational relation between the two molecules of the asymmetric unit. The structure was solved by molecular replacement using the structure from the triclinic PaHNL1 crystal form as the starting model. After one round of rigid body refinement, simulated annealing against a maximum-likelihood target to 2 Å resolution was carried out with the Crystallography and NMR System program suite (20). Several rounds of maximum-likelihood refinement and bulk solvent correction using all data over the whole resolution range were performed. Each cycle of refinement was followed by manual inspection of the electron density maps using the program O (21). During the whole refinement process no NCS restraints were applied in order to determine the differences between the two molecules. Water molecules were accepted based on the quality of the electron density. Only water molecules with B-factors less than 50 Å2 and reasonable hydrogen-bonding geometry were retained. During the final refinement stages alternate conformations were modeled and refined. Some residual weak density in the Fo − Fc maps results from the presence of further carbohydrate molecules at the glycosylation sites, which were impossible to model. The structure of liganded PaHNL1 was solved by rigid body refinement using the native P21 crystal structure. Clear additional electron density was visible in the Fo − Fc maps. (R)-mandelonitrile and benzaldehyde were built with the program Sybyl (Tripos Inc., St. Louis, MO). In the active site the reaction product benzaldehyde was modeled into the density. A water molecule (at the expected position of the cyano group) was introduced by a peak search of the Fo − Fc maps calculated with the benzaldehyde omitted. Due to the spherical shape of the density, water was chosen over cyanide as the predominant species present. Data collection and refinement statistics are summarized in Table ​Table1.1. Figures were prepared with Molscript (22), Raster3D (23), and Pymol (DeLano Scientific, San Carlos, CA).
Site-directed mutagenesis of PaHNL1 to introduce His459Asn and His497Asn mutations was carried out using the Stratagene QuickChange XL kit. Both mutants were expressed in Pichia pastoris X33 with pGAPZA-PaHNL1 as positive control and P. pastoris X-33 as negative control in 200 mL of BMD 1% media (100 mM potassium phosphate, pH 6.0, 1.34% YNB, 4 × 10−5% biotin, 1% glucose) for 3 days at 28 °C. Cultures were harvested and the supernatant media concentrated to approximately 1 mL. Expression levels of secreted proteins were assessed by SDS−PAGE. Activity measurements were carried out in parallel for the mutants, wild-type PaHNL1, and the negative control by using mandelonitrile as substrate and following the increase in absorption at 280 nm (24). Due to the background of the concomitant chemical reaction, the low activities of the mutants were not exactly quantifiable.
C57BL/6J WT and Siglec-F KO (Mutant Mouse Resource Research Center, University of California Davis, USA) mice and Lewis rats were maintained in the specific pathogen free animal facility at The Scripps Research Institute (La Jolla, USA). C57BL/6J and Balb/c mice were maintained in the specific pathogen free animal facility at the University of East Anglia (Norwich, UK). Animal use in this study was in the accordance with the guidelines of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of The Scripps Research Institute and the UK Home Office.
The anti-Siglec-F monoclonal antibody (rat IgG2b, clone 9C7) was generated as described previously [18]. Briefly, Lewis rats were immunized with Siglec-F-expressing CHO cells emulsified in complete Freund's adjuvant (Difco Laboratories). Following two boosts of the cells emulsified in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (Difco Laboratories), the immunized rats were sacrificed and the common iliac lymph nodes were harvested to generate hybridomas. The established hybridomas were screened for reactivity to Siglec-F-CHO cells and Siglec-F-expressing HEK293 cells by flow cytometry. The selected anti-Siglec-F expressing hybridoma was grown for 7–10 days, and the antibody was purified from the culture supernatant and labelled with Alexa Fluor-647 (Life Technolog
PPs were harvested from mouse small intestine and vortexed in PBS vigorously. The supernatant was removed, and this washing step was repeated three times. Washed PPs were incubated with 10 ml of PBS containing 5 mM EDTA and 1 mM DTT for 30 min at 37 °C, in order to remove cells localized in the epithelia. The solution was passed through a 40 μm-cell strainer and centrifuged. The harvested cells were incubated with FcR-blocking antibody (Biolegend, clone 93) and stained with anti-M cell antibody NKM16-2-4 (MP Biomedicals) for 30 min at 4 °C, followed by Biotin-labelled anti-rat IgG2c (Southern Biotech). The cells were further stained with a cocktail of Alexa647-labelled anti-Siglec-F antibody, Alexa700-labelled anti-mouse CD45 (Biolegend, clone: 30-F11), PE-labelled anti-mouse CCR3 (Biolegend, J073E5), PE-Cy7-labelled CD11b (Biolegend, M1/70), FITC-labelled UEA-I (Vector lab), and Pacific blue-labelled streptavidin (Life Technologies). The stained cells were washed and resuspended in 0.3 μg/ml propidium iodide for dead cell exclusion prior to analysis on Fortessa or LSR II cell analyzers (BD Biosciences). Data were analyzed by FlowJo (Treestar).
Terminal ileum PPs were harvested from C57BL/6J mice, washed in 1x PBS, snap frozen in OCT (Bright CRYO-M-BED), and cryosectioned at 8-μm thickness. Sections were fixed for 5 min with −20 °C methanol, washed once with PBS containing 0.05% Tween-20 (PBS-T), and washed twice with PBS. All subsequent incubations were performed at RT. Sections were treated with 3% H2O2 in PBS for 30 min. After washing once with PBS-T and twice with PBS, slides were blocked with PBS containing 6% BSA and 10% normal mouse serum (Southern Biotech) for 30 min. Anti-mouse Siglec-F or isotype control (10 μg/ml) and UEA-I-FITC (20 μg/ml) were applied for 60 min. After washing, as described above, sections were incubated for 30 min with mouse anti-rat IgG2b-HRP (Southern Biotech, 2 μg/ml). Sections were washed once with PBS-T, washed four times with 1x PBS, and treated for 5 min with Cy-3 Plus TSA reagent (Perkin Elmer) according to the manufacturer's instructions. After washing once with PBS-T and four times with PBS, sections were incubated with anti-mouse M cell antibody NKM16-2-4 (25 μg/ml). After 60 min the slides were washed and treated with biotinylated anti-rat IgG2c (10 μg/ml) for 30 min, washed, and stained for 20 min with Alexa647 conjugated streptavidin and counterstained with DAPI (5 μg/ml). Sections were imaged with the Zeiss Axio Imager M2, and data were analyzed with ZEN 2 (blue edition).
Balb/c mice were anesthetized with a continuous flow of isoflurane. The small intestine was exposed via laparotomy, and an intestinal loop containing PPs was made using threads (Fig. 3A). Five micrograms of Alexa647-labelled anti-Siglec-F or isotype control antibody (Rat IgG2b, Biolegend) was injected into the loop. The mice were sacrificed 15 min after inoculation, and PPs were harvested. The Alexa647 signal associated with M cells was analyzed by flow cytometry.
This study determined the CD36–005 expression level in the uteri of PCOS rat model and its effect on the proliferation activity of rat primary endometrial stromal cells. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and bioinformatics analysis were performed to detect the mRNA expression profiles and the biological pathways in which these differentially expressed mRNAs involved, after CD36–005 overexpression in the primary endometrial stromal cells. The differential expression of Hmgn5, Nr5a2, Dll4, Entpd1, Fam50a, and Brms1 were further validated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).
All animal procedures were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of Jilin University, and were conducted in accordance with the Guidelines for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Mature female Wistar rats (8 weeks old) were purchased for the isolation of primary endometrial stromal cells in the present study.
The uterine tissue used in this study was collected from the PCOS rat model in the article “Expression profiles of mRNA and long noncoding RNA in the ovaries of letrozole-induced polycystic ovary syndrome rat model through deep sequencing [25].” The middle of the uteri (body of uterus) was collected for subsequent total RNA extraction.
Primary endometrial stromal cells were isolated from 8-week-old Wistar rats’ uteri using previously described methods, cultured with DMEM-nutrient mixture F-12 Ham (DMEM-F12, Hyclone, USA) containing 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS, Gibco, USA), and incubated at 37 °C with 5% CO2 [26].
Stromal cells were seeded on coverslips and washed with phosphate buffer saline (PBS, Hyclone, USA). Then, the confluent cells were fixed in cold methanol, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and blocked with 1% goat serum. Stromal cells were incubated overnight at 4 °C with rabbit anti-mouse monoclonal antibody specific to vimentin and cytokeratin-19 at a 1:200 dilution in PBS (Boster, Wuhan, China) [27–29]. In order to validate the specificity of vimentin antibody, 5% nonimmune goat serum was used as negative control. After washed by PBS three times, stromal cells were incubated with goat-anti-rabbit second antibody (Boster, Wuhan, China) for 2 h at room temperature. Finally, coverslips were rinsed and mounted with DAPI. The stained stromal cells were observed using Olympus IX71 fluorescence microscope and images were analyzed by using cellSens Dimension.
When stromal cells reached 70% confluency, they were transiently transfected with either Ad-CD36–005 or Ad-GFP designed by Hanbio Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China) at the designated multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 50. The full-length sequence of CD36–005 was directly cloned into the pHBAD-EF1-MCS-3flag-CMV-GFP vector by seamless cloning. After 6 h incubation at 37 °C in 5% CO2, the medium was replaced with fresh growth medium. After transfection with Ad-CD36–005 or Ad-GFP, the stromal cells were collected at 48 h.

The small-interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes for targeting CD36–005, as well as a scrambled sequence (control siRNA duplex, negative control) were synthesized by the RiboBio Company (Guangzhou, China). The sequences were shown as follows: 5’-UAAGGACCUCUAUUGCUUGTT and CAAGCAAUAGAGGUCCUUATT (CD36–005 siRNA); 5’-UUCUCCGAACGUGUCACGUTT and 5’-ACGUGACACGUUCGGAGAATT (nonspecific scrambled siRNA, negative control). Transfections for siRNA were performed according to Fugene HD Transfection Reagent (Promega, USA) protocol. After transfection with CD36–005 or control siRNA, stromal cells were collected at 36 h.
CCK-8 reagent (Promega, USA) was used to perform the proliferation assays according to the manufacturer’s directions. Stromal cells were seeded at a density of 1 × 105 /well in 96-well plates and cultured in the DMEM/F12 medium containing 2% heat-inactivated FBS. After transfection with Ad-CD36–005, Ad-GFP, or CD36–005 siRNA, the stromal cells were cultured for 48 h. Finally, cells in each well were added with 10 μl of CCK-8 reagent and incubated for 2 h. Absorbance was measured at 490 nm using a 96-well plate reader.
Total RNA from the middle of the uteri and stromal cells were extracted using TRIzol (Invitrogen/Life Technologies, USA) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The concentration and quality of RNA were determined using NanoDrop 2000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, UK) to ensure that the OD260/280 absorbance ratios of all samples were between 1.8 and 2. RNA integrity was evaluated using the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies, USA).
RNA samples from three stromal cells in each group with RNA Integrity Number (RIN) ≥ 7 were subjected to the subsequent mRNA sequencing by Shanghai OE Biotech Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China). The libraries were constructed using TruSeq Stranded mRNA LTSample Prep Kit (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. These libraries were sequenced on the Illumina sequencing platform (HiSeqTM 2500 or Illumina HiSeq X Ten) and 125 bp/150 bp paired-end reads were generated. We used Gene Ontology (GO) to categorize the function of the differentially expressed mRNAs and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) to predict the signaling pathways in which these differentially expressed mRNAs may be involved.
Reverse transcription reactions were performed using PrimeScript RT Reagent Kit (Takara Bio) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analyses were performed at the following conditions: 95 °C for 2 min followed by 40 cycles of 95 °C for 15 s and 59 °C for 30 s, according to the instructions of SYBR Premix Ex Taq (TaKaRa). The mRNAs and lncRNA CD36–005 were normalized to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and the relative expression levels were analyzed by calculating the fold changes using the 2−ΔΔCt value method. We purchased the primer sequences for qRT-PCR from RiboBio Company (Guangzhou, China).
Significance of difference between two groups was compared by Independent-Samples T Test. Data are shown mean ± SEM. Significance of difference was considered significant at P < 0.05. All statistical analyses were performed using SPSS17.0 software (SPSS Inc., Chicago).
Male B6 mice were purchased from Charles River (Sulzfeld, Germany) and male CD20dbtg mice were obtained from Taconic Biosciences (Silkeborg, Denmark). This transgenic mouse strain had been engineered to express both murine and human CD20, and to tolerate human IgG1 molecules (see above for details). All mice were eight to nine weeks old at the time of immunisation and kept under specific pathogen-free conditions at the animal facility (“Präklinisches Experimentelles Tierzentrum” (PETZ)) of the University Erlangen-Nürnberg. Humidity and temperature were maintained at 45–65% and 20–24 °C and the facility kept under a twelve-hour light–dark cycle. The mice had free access to a standard autoclaved rodent diet (Ssniff Spezialdiäten, Soest, Germany) and autoclaved tap water. Sufficient feeding and drinking for paralysed mice were ensured by supplying food and water in a gel form at ground level. Stocking density of the cages was determined according to EU guideline 2010-63.

All animal experiments were performed according to protocols that were approved by the “Regierung von Unterfranken” (ethical approval code: RUF-55.5.5-2532-2-577) and complied with the German Law on the Protection of Animals, the “Principles of Laboratory Animal Care” (NIH publication no. 86-23, revised 1985) and the “ARRIVE guidelines for reporting animal research” [43].
In preparation for EAE induction, complete Freund’s adjuvant (CFA) was obtained by combining nine parts of paraffin oil (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) and one part of mannide monooleate (Sigma-Aldrich) with 5 mg/mL Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37 Ra (BD Difco Laboratories, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA). All mice were subcutaneously immunised in both sides of the flank with a total of 200 µg MP4 (Alexion Pharmaceuticals, New Haven, CT, USA) emulsified in 200 µL CFA. On the day of immunisation and 24 h later, the mice received 100 ng pertussis toxin (Hooke Laboratories, Lawrence, MA, USA) in 100 µL sterile phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) intraperitoneally. Mice were scored daily to assess the progress of clinical symptoms according to the standard EAE scale: (0) no symptoms, (1) floppy tail, (2) hind limb weakness, (3) full hind limb paralysis, (4) quadriplegia and (5) death. Increments of 0.5 were used to account for intermediate scores not sufficiently determined by the five hallmarks.
Mice were divided into three cohorts:

“wt cohort” (wt);

“CD20dbtg cohort 1” (CD20dbtg1);

“CD20dbtg cohort 2” (CD20dbtg2).

The “wt cohort” consisted of n = 13 wildtype C57BL/6 mice, of which n = 6 were treated with a murine IgG-control antibody (muIgG2a; Bio X Cell, Lebanon, NH, USA) and n = 7 were treated with the murine anti-CD20 antibody 18B12 (Roche, Basel, Switzerland), both at a concentration of 5 mg/kg body weight in 50 µL PBS, into the lateral tail vein. Treatment was initiated at 30 days after the peak of EAE and repeated on day 33 and 36.

“CD20dbtg cohort 1” consisted of n = 12 transgene huCD20xHIGR3 mice, of which n = 6 were treated with a human IgG-control antibody (huIgG1; Roche) and n = 6 were treated with OBZ (Roche), both at a concentration of 5 mg/kg body weight in 50 µL PBS, into the lateral tail vein. Treatment time and frequency were equivalent to the wild-type cohort, initiated at 30 days after the peak of EAE and repeated on day 33 and 36.

“CD20dbtg cohort 2” consisted of the same strain and number of mice and received an equivalent treatment as “CD20dbtg cohort 1” but starting on day 50 after the peak of EAE and repeated on day 53, 56 and 59.
All mice were sacrificed with CO2 seven days after the final treatment. For Simoa™ NfL analysis, blood was collected from the inferior vena cava, centrifuged at 1000× g for 10 min and the serum stored at −80 °C until analysis. Mice were perfusion-fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA; Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany) in PBS. The lumbar spinal cord was dissected and post-fixed at 4 °C overnight using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) fixing solution under slight agitation. The TEM fixing solution was prepared by dissolving 4 g 4% PFA and 2.14 g 0.1 M sodium cacodylate (Serva, Heidelberg, Germany) in 50 mL double-distilled water (ddH2O). After cooling and filtration, 16 mL 25% glutaraldehyde (Roth) and 17 mL 1.2% picric acid (AppliChem, Darmstadt, Germany) were added and the solution was filled with ddH2O to reach 100 mL. The pH was titrated with either hydrochloric acid (Roth) or sodium hydroxide (Roth) to reach a pH of 7.2—7.4. The samples were then washed with PBS for 24 h, changing the buffer three times
In preparation for light and electron microscopic analysis, spinal cord samples were treated with 1.5% potassium ferricyanide (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) and 1% osmium tetroxide (Emsdiasum, Hatfield, PA, USA) in PBS for two hours at room temperature. In order to dehydrate and embed the samples, they were treated with 70% ethanol (Roth) for 60 min, then 80% ethanol, 90% ethanol, 100% ethanol, 100% ethanol (undenatured), 100% ethanol/acetone (Roth) 1/1, 2/3 acetone and 1/3 Epon, 1/3 acetone and 2/3 Epon for 45 min each and finally Epon and 2% glycidether accelerator DMP-30 (Roth) for 180 min. Epon was prepared by mixing two solutions (A and B) prior to use: Solution A consisted of 75 mL of glycidether 100 (Roth) and 120 mL of glycidether hardener DBA (Roth) and solution B consisted of 120 mL of glycidether 100 (Roth) and 105 mL of glycidether hardener MNA (Roth).

After dehydration, the samples were aligned in molds and coated with Epon and 2% glycidether accelerator DMP-30 and polymerised at 60 °C overnight.

For light microscopic analysis, the embedded tissue was transversely sliced at a thickness of 500 nm with an ultramicrotome (Leica Ultracut UCT, Wetzlar, Germany). Sections were covered in poly-l-lysine (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) and transferred to a microscope slide to be dried at 80 °C on a heating plate before being colored at 70 °C with a Richardson’s methylene blue solution for 2–3 min. Richardson’s methylene blue was prepared by mixing two solutions (C and D) prior to use: Solution C consisted of 1% azur II (Merck) dissolved in 1% borax water (sodium tetraborate × 10H2O (Roth) in ddH2O) and solution D consisted of 1% methylene blue (Merck) in 1% borax water. After being rinsed with ddH2O and being left on the heating plate to dry, the sections were submerged in xylol (Roth) and then covered in DePex (Serva). Light microscopic images were taken on a Leica DM2000 microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heerbrugg, Switzerland) with a Leica MC190 HD camera (Leica Microsystems) and acquired using the Leica Application Suite X (LAS X) software (Leica Microsystems).

For electron microscopy, the Epon blocks were subsequently cut at a thickness of 80 nm, stretched with chloroform (Roth) and transferred to copper grids (Emsdiasum) before being contrasted with 10% uranyl acetate (Emsdiasum) for ten minutes, rinsed with ddH2O and then treated for another ten minutes with 2.8% lead(II)citrate × 3H2O (Polysciences Inc., Warrington, PA, USA). Electron micrographs were taken on a ZEISS EM 906 (Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) using a cathode voltage of 60 kV, a magnification of ×6000 and acquired using the iTEM Software (Olympus Soft Imaging Solutions, Münster, Germany).

Images were analysed using the Image J software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA). Ten images per mouse were analysed, covering the same areas of the spinal cord in the respective treatment groups being compared, namely the area adjacent to the anterior fissure of the ventrolateral tract (VLT). All axons contained within these ten images were counted in order to detect the percentage of axolytic axons. This resulted in an average number of n = 218.86 ± 9.79 (mean value ± SEM) axons analysed per mouse. In order to calculate the g-ratio, we then randomly selected five of the ten images and measured 20 axons per image, thus a total of 100 axons per mouse were included into the g-ratio analysis. This is according to the standard procedure as also described in [44].

The experimenter was blinded to the identity of the treatments during analysis of the samples. Lesion area was defined by analysing a methylene blue stained cross section of the lumbar spinal cord, measuring the lesion area and dividing it by the area of the entire VLT.

In order to describe myelin pathology, axons were grouped into one of three categories: normal, demyelinating or remyelinating. This classification is based on the g-ratio, a concept that relates the diameter of an axon to the diameter of the axon including its myelin sheath by dividing the former with the latter [45]. Our analysis was focused on axons in the ongoing process of demyelination, which are initially characterised by a swollen disintegrating myelin sheath and hence a decreased g-ratio. When an axon remyelinates, the myelin sheath wraps around the axon slowly and successively, hence the g-ratio increases compared to a normally myelinated axon, as defined in [46]. In order to generate a quantitative statement, it is necessary to relate the single measured g-ratio values to a reference group of healthy animals. We used naïve/non-immunised mice of both the CD20dbtg (n = 3) and wt (n = 4) strains described above, which resulted in the following ranges for normal myelination: 0.65–0.78 for the CD20dbtg and 0.58–0.85 for the wt cohort. These values were obtained by the addition and subtraction of three standard deviations to the mean obtained from the reference mice. Additionally, axonal pathology was assessed by determining the percentage of axolytic axons. Exemplary demyelinating, remyelinating and axolytic axons are shown in Figure 7.
In preparation for light and electron microscopic analysis, spinal cord samples were treated with 1.5% potassium ferricyanide (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) and 1% osmium tetroxide (Emsdiasum, Hatfield, PA, USA) in PBS for two hours at room temperature. In order to dehydrate and embed the samples, they were treated with 70% ethanol (Roth) for 60 min, then 80% ethanol, 90% ethanol, 100% ethanol, 100% ethanol (undenatured), 100% ethanol/acetone (Roth) 1/1, 2/3 acetone and 1/3 Epon, 1/3 acetone and 2/3 Epon for 45 min each and finally Epon and 2% glycidether accelerator DMP-30 (Roth) for 180 min. Epon was prepared by mixing two solutions (A and B) prior to use: Solution A consisted of 75 mL of glycidether 100 (Roth) and 120 mL of glycidether hardener DBA (Roth) and solution B consisted of 120 mL of glycidether 100 (Roth) and 105 mL of glycidether hardener MNA (Roth).

After dehydration, the samples were aligned in molds and coated with Epon and 2% glycidether accelerator DMP-30 and polymerised at 60 °C overnight.

For light microscopic analysis, the embedded tissue was transversely sliced at a thickness of 500 nm with an ultramicrotome (Leica Ultracut UCT, Wetzlar, Germany). Sections were covered in poly-l-lysine (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) and transferred to a microscope slide to be dried at 80 °C on a heating plate before being colored at 70 °C with a Richardson’s methylene blue solution for 2–3 min. Richardson’s methylene blue was prepared by mixing two solutions (C and D) prior to use: Solution C consisted of 1% azur II (Merck) dissolved in 1% borax water (sodium tetraborate × 10H2O (Roth) in ddH2O) and solution D consisted of 1% methylene blue (Merck) in 1% borax water. After being rinsed with ddH2O and being left on the heating plate to dry, the sections were submerged in xylol (Roth) and then covered in DePex (Serva). Light microscopic images were taken on a Leica DM2000 microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heerbrugg, Switzerland) with a Leica MC190 HD camera (Leica Microsystems) and acquired using the Leica Application Suite X (LAS X) software (Leica Microsystems).

For electron microscopy, the Epon blocks were subsequently cut at a thickness of 80 nm, stretched with chloroform (Roth) and transferred to copper grids (Emsdiasum) before being contrasted with 10% uranyl acetate (Emsdiasum) for ten minutes, rinsed with ddH2O and then treated for another ten minutes with 2.8% lead(II)citrate × 3H2O (Polysciences Inc., Warrington, PA, USA). Electron micrographs were taken on a ZEISS EM 906 (Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) using a cathode voltage of 60 kV, a magnification of ×6000 and acquired using the iTEM Software (Olympus Soft Imaging Solutions, Münster, Germany).

Images were analysed using the Image J software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA). Ten images per mouse were analysed, covering the same areas of the spinal cord in the respective treatment groups being compared, namely the area adjacent to the anterior fissure of the ventrolateral tract (VLT). All axons contained within these ten images were counted in order to detect the percentage of axolytic axons. This resulted in an average number of n = 218.86 ± 9.79 (mean value ± SEM) axons analysed per mouse. In order to calculate the g-ratio, we then randomly selected five of the ten images and measured 20 axons per image, thus a total of 100 axons per mouse were included into the g-ratio analysis. This is according to the standard procedure as also described in [44].

The experimenter was blinded to the identity of the treatments during analysis of the samples. Lesion area was defined by analysing a methylene blue stained cross section of the lumbar spinal cord, measuring the lesion area and dividing it by the area of the entire VLT.

In order to describe myelin pathology, axons were grouped into one of three categories: normal, demyelinating or remyelinating. This classification is based on the g-ratio, a concept that relates the diameter of an axon to the diameter of the axon including its myelin sheath by dividing the former with the latter [45]. Our analysis was focused on axons in the ongoing process of demyelination, which are initially characterised by a swollen disintegrating myelin sheath and hence a decreased g-ratio. When an axon remyelinates, the myelin sheath wraps around the axon slowly and successively, hence the g-ratio increases compared to a normally myelinated axon, as defined in [46]. In order to generate a quantitative statement, it is necessary to relate the single measured g-ratio values to a reference group of healthy animals. We used naïve/non-immunised mice of both the CD20dbtg (n = 3) and wt (n = 4) strains described above, which resulted in the following ranges for normal myelination: 0.65–0.78 for the CD20dbtg and 0.58–0.85 for the wt cohort. These values were obtained by the addition and subtraction of three standard deviations to the mean obtained from the reference mice. Additionally, axonal pathology was assessed by determining the percentage of axolytic axons. Exemplary demyelinating, remyelinating and axolytic axons are shown in Figure 7.
In preparation for light and electron microscopic analysis, spinal cord samples were treated with 1.5% potassium ferricyanide (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) and 1% osmium tetroxide (Emsdiasum, Hatfield, PA, USA) in PBS for two hours at room temperature. In order to dehydrate and embed the samples, they were treated with 70% ethanol (Roth) for 60 min, then 80% ethanol, 90% ethanol, 100% ethanol, 100% ethanol (undenatured), 100% ethanol/acetone (Roth) 1/1, 2/3 acetone and 1/3 Epon, 1/3 acetone and 2/3 Epon for 45 min each and finally Epon and 2% glycidether accelerator DMP-30 (Roth) for 180 min. Epon was prepared by mixing two solutions (A and B) prior to use: Solution A consisted of 75 mL of glycidether 100 (Roth) and 120 mL of glycidether hardener DBA (Roth) and solution B consisted of 120 mL of glycidether 100 (Roth) and 105 mL of glycidether hardener MNA (Roth).

After dehydration, the samples were aligned in molds and coated with Epon and 2% glycidether accelerator DMP-30 and polymerised at 60 °C overnight.

For light microscopic analysis, the embedded tissue was transversely sliced at a thickness of 500 nm with an ultramicrotome (Leica Ultracut UCT, Wetzlar, Germany). Sections were covered in poly-l-lysine (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) and transferred to a microscope slide to be dried at 80 °C on a heating plate before being colored at 70 °C with a Richardson’s methylene blue solution for 2–3 min. Richardson’s methylene blue was prepared by mixing two solutions (C and D) prior to use: Solution C consisted of 1% azur II (Merck) dissolved in 1% borax water (sodium tetraborate × 10H2O (Roth) in ddH2O) and solution D consisted of 1% methylene blue (Merck) in 1% borax water. After being rinsed with ddH2O and being left on the heating plate to dry, the sections were submerged in xylol (Roth) and then covered in DePex (Serva). Light microscopic images were taken on a Leica DM2000 microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heerbrugg, Switzerland) with a Leica MC190 HD camera (Leica Microsystems) and acquired using the Leica Application Suite X (LAS X) software (Leica Microsystems).

For electron microscopy, the Epon blocks were subsequently cut at a thickness of 80 nm, stretched with chloroform (Roth) and transferred to copper grids (Emsdiasum) before being contrasted with 10% uranyl acetate (Emsdiasum) for ten minutes, rinsed with ddH2O and then treated for another ten minutes with 2.8% lead(II)citrate × 3H2O (Polysciences Inc., Warrington, PA, USA). Electron micrographs were taken on a ZEISS EM 906 (Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) using a cathode voltage of 60 kV, a magnification of ×6000 and acquired using the iTEM Software (Olympus Soft Imaging Solutions, Münster, Germany).

Images were analysed using the Image J software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA). Ten images per mouse were analysed, covering the same areas of the spinal cord in the respective treatment groups being compared, namely the area adjacent to the anterior fissure of the ventrolateral tract (VLT). All axons contained within these ten images were counted in order to detect the percentage of axolytic axons. This resulted in an average number of n = 218.86 ± 9.79 (mean value ± SEM) axons analysed per mouse. In order to calculate the g-ratio, we then randomly selected five of the ten images and measured 20 axons per image, thus a total of 100 axons per mouse were included into the g-ratio analysis. This is according to the standard procedure as also described in [44].

The experimenter was blinded to the identity of the treatments during analysis of the samples. Lesion area was defined by analysing a methylene blue stained cross section of the lumbar spinal cord, measuring the lesion area and dividing it by the area of the entire VLT.

In order to describe myelin pathology, axons were grouped into one of three categories: normal, demyelinating or remyelinating. This classification is based on the g-ratio, a concept that relates the diameter of an axon to the diameter of the axon including its myelin sheath by dividing the former with the latter [45]. Our analysis was focused on axons in the ongoing process of demyelination, which are initially characterised by a swollen disintegrating myelin sheath and hence a decreased g-ratio. When an axon remyelinates, the myelin sheath wraps around the axon slowly and successively, hence the g-ratio increases compared to a normally myelinated axon, as defined in [46]. In order to generate a quantitative statement, it is necessary to relate the single measured g-ratio values to a reference group of healthy animals. We used naïve/non-immunised mice of both the CD20dbtg (n = 3) and wt (n = 4) strains described above, which resulted in the following ranges for normal myelination: 0.65–0.78 for the CD20dbtg and 0.58–0.85 for the wt cohort. These values were obtained by the addition and subtraction of three standard deviations to the mean obtained from the reference mice. Additionally, axonal pathology was assessed by determining the percentage of axolytic axons. Exemplary demyelinating, remyelinating and axolytic axons are shown in Figure 7.
One day before perfusion, blood was drawn from the tail vein and collected in Eppendorf tubes that contained 80 μL of heparin. Cells were stained with 1 µL of BD Horizon™ Fixable Viability Stain 450 (FVS450; BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA, USA) and 1 µL of APC anti-CD19 antibody (BioLegend, London, UK) at room temperature for 30 min. Erythrocytes were lysed with 3 mL 1× RBC lysis buffer (BioLegend) for 10 min followed by centrifugation at 500× g for 5 min. The supernatant was discarded and cells resuspended in 3 mL of FacsFlow (BD Biosciences). Cells were once again centrifuged and resuspended in 150 µL of FacsFlow. Flow cytometric acquisition was performed on a CytoFLEX S equipped with CytExpert 2.2. software (Beckman Coulter, Brea, CA, USA). Data analysis was performed using FlowJo version 10.0.6 (Tree Star Inc., Ashland, OR, USA). Dead cells were excluded from the analysis. Afterwards, doublets were excluded using the combined width parameter of the forward and side scatter.
Serum NfL levels were measured using ultrasensitive Single molecule array (Simoa™) technology, using the NF-light Advantage kit on an HD-X Analyzer according to instructions from the kit manufacturer (Quanterix, Billerica, MA, USA). The measurements were performed by board-certified laboratory technicians in one round of experiments using one batch of reagents. For a QC sample with a concentration of 7.4 pg/mL, the intra-assay coefficient of variation was 5.0%. For a QC sample with a concentration of 58.1 pg/mL, the intra-assay coefficient of variation was 4.0%.
The Mann–Whitney U test was used to determine statistical significance and computed using GraphPad Prism 8 (San Diego, CA, USA). Statistical significance was set at p ≤ 0.05 and is visualised by the following symbols: *: p < 0.05; **: p < 0.01 throughout the manuscript. All graphs are displayed with mean values and standard errors of the mean (SEM).
This case–control study enrolled patients with CAD and age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects. The plasma levels of lncRNA CASC11 and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) were measured. Diagnostic values of lncRNA CASC11 and TGF-β1 for CAD were determined using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. Correlations between plasma levels of lncRNA CASC11 and TGF-β1 were analysed using linear regression.
This case–control study recruited consecutive patients with CAD from the Outpatient Department of the Health and Medical Centre of the People’s Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Urumqi City, Xinjiang Province, China between December 2009 and December 2011. A group of patients were selected from a larger group to participate in the study on the basis of the inclusion and exclusion criteria. All patients were confirmed to have CAD using coronary angiography. The inclusion criteria were as follows: (i) newly diagnosed; (ii) no therapies had been initiated. The exclusion criteria were as follows: (i) CAD patients transferred from other hospitals; (ii) any therapies for any clinical disorders were administered within 3 months prior to admission; (iii) any other obvious clinical disorders were observed. During the same time period, the current study enrolled healthy age- and sex-matched volunteers from the local population. All healthy participants from Urumqi City received systemic physiological examinations and the values of their physiological indicators were all within the normal range. All of the patients and healthy participants were informed of the experimental details and they provided written informed consent. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Health and Medical Centre of the People’s Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
Before the initiation of any therapies, whole peripheral blood (5 ml) was collected from each patient with CAD and each healthy volunteer after an overnight fast. Whole peripheral blood was collected in tubes containing 1.5 mg/ml ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid. Following centrifugation using an Allegra X-30 centrifuge (Beckman Coulter, Brea, CA, USA) at room temperature for 15 min at 1200 g, plasma was separated and stored in liquid nitrogen at –80°C before undertaking the following experiments.
Biochemical data were retrieved from the medical records of the study participants.
Patients with CAD were followed up for 8 years after their initial diagnosis. Their survival conditions were monitored and recorded. This study did not include patients that were lost to follow-up or those that died of other causes.
LncRNA CASC11 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 expressing pcDNA3 vectors were constructed by Sangon (Shanghai, China). Human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs; ATCC, Gaithersburg, MD, USA) were transfected with pcDNA3 vectors expressing lncRNA CASC11 and TGF-β1, or empty pcDNA3 vector (negative control [NC]) using Lipofectamine® 2000 (Invitrogen, Shanghai, China). Cells were harvested at 24 h after transfection to perform the following experiments. Cells without any treatments were used as control (C) cells.
The levels TGF-β1 in the plasma from patients with CAD and the healthy controls were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits (ab100647; Abcam, Cambridge, UK). Levels of TGF-β1 in plasma were measured in ng/ml. The minimum detectable concentration was 80 pg/ml. Intra- and interassay coefficients of variation for all ELISAs were <5% and <10%, respectively.
TRIzol® reagent (Invitrogen) was used to extract total RNA from plasma (0.2 ml plasma per 1 ml TRIzol®) and HCAECs (105 cells per 1 ml TRIzol®). All RNA samples of satisfactory quality were subjected to DNase I digestion (Invitrogen). Following that, reverse transcriptase AMV (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA) and SensiFAST™ SYBR® No-ROX One-Step Kit (Bioline, Boston, MA, USA) were used to carry out reverse transcriptions and prepare quantitative PCR mixtures, respectively. All experiments were repeated three times. Using 18S rRNA and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) as internal housekeeping controls, the levels of lncRNA CASC11 and TGF-β1 RNA were analysed. The primer sequences were as follows: 5′-GCTGCAGAAGGTCCGAAGA-3′ (forward) and 5′-TTCACCACGTCCAGTTGCT-3′ (reverse) for CASC11; 5′-AAGAAGTCACCCGCGTGCT-3′ (forward) and 5′-TGTGTGATGTCTTTGGTTTTGT-3′ (reverse) for 18S rRNA; 5′-GGAGCGAGATCCCTCCAAAA-3′ (forward) and 5′-GGCTGTTGTCATACTTCTCATG-3′ (reverse) for TGF-β1; and 5′-CTACCACATCCAAGGAAGCA-3′ (forward) and 5′-TTTTTCGTCACTACCTCCCC-3′ for human GAPDH. The cycling programme involved preliminary denaturation at 95°C for 1 min, followed by 40 cycles of 95°C for 10 s and 58°C for 50 s. All PCR reactions were performed on a CFX96 Touch Real-Time PCR Detection System (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). The relative amounts of lncRNA CASC11 and TGF-β1 mRNA to 18S rRNA and GAPDH were calculated using the 2–ΔΔCT method.
Total protein from HCAECs (105 cells per 1 ml RIPA buffer) was extracted using RIPA buffer (Sangon). After denaturing, the proteins were separated using sodium dodecyl sulphate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (10% gel). Following protein transfer to polyvinylidene fluoride membranes (Invitrogen) and blocking (2 h in 5% non-fat milk at room temperature), the membranes were incubated with rabbit anti-GAPDH primary polyclonal antibodies (1:800; ab9485; Abcam, Cambridge, UK) and rabbit anti-TGF-β1 primary polyclonal antibodies (1:800; ab92486; Abcam) overnight at 4°C. After washing the membranes in Tris-buffered saline Tween 20 (TBST; pH 7.4) three times (15 min per wash), the membranes were incubated with goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin-horseradish peroxidase secondary antibodies (1:800; MBS435036; MyBioSource, Cambridge, UK) for 2 h at room temperature. Immunodetection was undertaken using an enhanced chemiluminescence method (Sigma-Aldrich). Image J version 1.46 software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MA, USA) was used to analyse and normalize the signals.
All statistical analyses were performed using the SPSS® statistical package, version 16.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) for Windows®. Data are presented as mean ± SD, which were calculated from three replicates. Differences between patient and control groups were determined using the unpaired t-test. Differences among different cell transfection groups were analysed using one-way analysis of variance and Tukey test. The diagnostic analysis was performed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Correlations were analysed by performing linear regression. The patients with CAD were stratified in to high and low lncRNA CASC11 level groups. Based on follow-up data, the Kaplan–Meier method was used to plot survival curves. A log-rank test was performed to compare the survival curves. A P-value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
The following reagent was obtained through the NIH Biodefense and Emerging Infections Research Resources Repository, NIAID, NIH: Yersinia pestis subsp. A1122, cultured at 37°C in Tryptic Soy Broth with 0.1% cysteine (TSB). Recombinant proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 CodonPlus (DE3)-RIL cells from Stratagene, La Jolla, CA that were grown at 37°C in Luria-Bertani (LB) media supplemented with 100 µg/mL ampicillin and 50 µg/ml chloramphenicol. All liquid cultures were constantly shaken at 250 rpm. Agar (1.5% wt/vol) was added to prepare solid media.
The half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) for FR900098, a known MEP synthase inhibitor [7], was determined via a dose-response plot of cell growth (OD600) as a function of inhibitor concentration. An overnight culture of Y. pestis subsp. A1122 was grown in TSB and harvested by centrifugation (15 min, 2450×g, 25°C). The resulting cell pellet was washed twice with 1 mL of TSB then diluted to an OD600 of 0.2. Aliquots of the culture were then dispensed into 10×1 cm foam-capped test tubes containing 2 mL of fresh TSB and FR900098 added to the tubes at the indicated concentrations. Bacterial growth was monitored over 24 hrs. Each condition was evaluated in duplicate. Nonlinear regression fitting the resulting dose-response plot was achieved using GraphPad Prism version 4.00 for Windows (GraphPad software Inc, San Diego, CA) and the equation F = 1/(1+[I]/IC50) where F = fractional growth and [I] = inhibitor concentration. For growth inhibition assays run with rationally designed compounds, a small volume protocol was used in which a diluted overnight culture was used to inoculate 400 µL of TSB containing the appropriate concentration of inhibitor. Cultures were grown in foam-capped, 1.5 mL microcentrifuge tubes and monitored over 24 hours. For the small volume protocol, each condition was evaluated in triplicate.
The Y. pestis CO92 MEP synthase gene (ispC) was identified in the complete genome sequence using primary sequence homology with orthologs from other organisms. Sequence alignment was accomplished using Clustal Omega, with the following reference sequence numbers and protein sequence numbers obtained from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI): Y. pestis (NC_003143.1, YP_002346091.1), E. coli (U00096.2, AAC73284.1), M. tuberculosis (NC_000962.3, NP_217386.2), F. tularensis (AJ749949.2, CAG46207.1), V. cholerae (NC_002505.1, NP_231885.1), B. anthracis (AE016879.1, AAP27179.1), M. leprae (NC_002677.1, NP_302094.1), and T. pallidum (NC_000919.1, NP_219039.1) The Y. pestis ispC gene was synthesized (GenScript USA Inc, Piscataway, NJ) and cloned into a pET101/D-TOPO vector, facilitating the expression of a C-terminal His-tagged protein. Restriction mapping and DNA sequencing were used to confirm the construction of the plasmid (pYpIspC). The plasmid was transformed into chemically competent E. coli BL21 CodonPlus (DE3)-RIL cells (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) for protein expression.

A 10 mL overnight seed culture of E. coli BL21 CodonPlus (DE3)-RIL+pYpIspC was added to 1 L of LB media and incubated with shaking at 37°C and 250 rpm. Once an OD600 of 1.8 was achieved, protein expression was induced using 0.5 mM isopropyl β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) and the culture was allowed to incubate for an additional 18 hours. Cells were harvested via centrifugation (4650×g, 20 min) and stored at −80°C. Protein was isolated and purified from the cells via chemical lysis and affinity chromatography. Cell lysis was achieved using Lysis Buffer A (100 mM Tris pH 8, 0.032% lysozyme, 3 mL per mg cell pellet), followed by Lysis Buffer B (0.1 M CaCl2, 0.1 M MgCl2, 0.1 M NaCl, 0.020% DNase, 0.3 mL per mg cell pellet). Centrifugation (48,000×g, 20 min) yielded the clarified cell lysate that was passed through a TALON immobilized metal affinity column (Clontech Laboratories, Mountain View, CA). The column was washed with 20 column volumes of 1× equilibrium buffer (50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 300 mM NaCl), 10 column volumes of 1× wash buffer (50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 300 mM NaCl, 10 mM imidazole), and 15 column volumes of 2× wash buffer (100 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 600 mM NaCl, 20 mM imidazole). The protein was then eluted with 5 column volumes of 1× elution buffer (150 mM imidazole pH 7.0, 300 mM NaCl). Buffer was exchanged with 0.1 M Tris pH 7.5, 1 mM NaCl, 5 mM DTT during concentration by ultrafiltration. Protein concentration was determined using Advanced Protein Assay Reagent (Cytoskeleton, Denver CO) with γ-globulins (Sigma-Aldrich) as the standard. Purified protein was visualized via Coomassie stained SDS-PAGE. The yield of YpIspC averaged 30 mg per 1 L shake flask. M. tuberculosis and F. tularensis MEP synthase [26] were cloned, expressed, and purified essentially as described above.
MEP synthase activity was assayed at 37°C by spectrophotometrically monitoring the enzyme catalyzed oxidation of NADPH (Fig. 1C), as previously described [27]. All assays were performed in duplicate. To determine the apparent KM for 1 deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate (DXP), 120 µL assay solutions contained 100 mM Tris pH 7.8, 25 mM MgCl2, 150 µM NADPH, 0.89 µM MEP synthase, and variable concentrations of DXP (Echelon Biosciences, Salt Lake City, UT). The assay solution was incubated at 37°C for 10 minutes to allow NADPH to associate with the enzyme prior to the addition of DXP. To determine the apparent KM for NADPH, assays were performed with fixed DXP concentration (0.4 mM) and a variable concentration of NADPH. Nonlinear regression to the Michaelis-Menton equation enabled the determination of kinetic constants. To determine cation specificity, assays were performed with 25 mM MgCl2, CaCl2, CoCl2, CuCl2, MnCl2, or NiCl2. Assays performed with isopentenyl pyrophosphate, dimethylallyl pyrophosphate, and geranyl pyrophosphate (Echelon Biosciences, Salt Lake City, Utah) included a 10 minute preincubation with the enzyme (37°C) before addition of NADPH. The half-maximal inhibition (IC50) by fosmidomycin and FR900098 were determined by using a plot of enzyme fractional activity as a function of inhibitor concentration. As they are slow, tight binding inhibitors [28], fosmidomycin and FR900098 were pre-incubated with the enzyme for 10 minutes prior to the addition of the substrate. Molecular library screening for inhibitors also included this pre-incubation step.
The Y. pestis MEP synthase was homology-modeled using I-TASSER (http://zhanglab.ccmb.med.umich.edu/I-TASSER/) [29] [30] [31]. Templates were selected by I-TASSER’s threading alignment algorithm which considers predicted secondary structure features in the sequence and identifies analogous and homologous protein templates. The optimized model was then evaluated with ProQ2 (http://www.bioinfo.ifm.liu.se/ProQ2/) [32], which uses features such as atom-atom contacts, residue-residue contacts, solvent accessibility, and secondary structure information to assign an accuracy score from 0 (unreliable) to 1 (reliable). Swiss- PdbViewer 4.0 (http://spdbv.vital-it.ch/) was used to visualize and annotate the model.
A rationally designed, small molecule library was compiled using compounds synthesized as described [33]. Each compound was designed from resolved crystal structures of M. tuberculosis MEP synthase in complex with fosmidomycin [33] [34] and contains an amide-linked or O-linked functional group.

A natural product library was compiled in house using extracts obtained from 80 different biological sources. After solvent extraction, the extracts were dried under vacuum, dispensed by mass, and resuspended in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for use in the screen. For dose-response and mechanism of inhibition plots, inhibitor concentrations are dilutions relative to the original stock solution.
Studies used 8–10-week-old male Dahl SS rats obtained from Charles River laboratories (Wilmington MA; where noted) or, when comparing wild-type and Hv1−/− rats, from an in house colony at Augusta University (derived from the Dahl SS rat stain at the Medical College of Wisconsin). Rats were maintained ad libitum on water and a pellet diet containing low 0.4% NaCl (AIN76A; Dyets Inc; Bethlehem PA (LS)). All studies were conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. All of the protocols were approved in advance by the institutional animal care committee at Augusta University. Upon receipt from Charles River Inc., rats were allowed to acclimatize in our animal facility for 1 week prior to surgeries being performed. All rats were initially maintained on a low Na+ diet. All protocols were initiated at least 7 days after surgery to allow time for rats to recover.

Treatment protocol
The treatment protocol, experimental groups entering the protocol and the measurements performed on each group are outlined in Figure 8. To determine the effect of NaHCO3 on renal injury in the Dahl SS rat model, either NaHCO3 or equimolar NaCl was given to high salt fed rats via the drinking water. All rats were initially maintained on LS chow and ad libitum tap water. At the beginning of the experimental protocol, tap water was replaced with water containing either 0.1 M NaHCO3 (Sigma) or equimolar (NaCl 0.1 M) that was made fresh daily and administration maintained for the remainder of the protocol. Following 3 days of treatment, rats were placed in metabolic cages for a 24-h urine collection. The following day, rats were placed on an 8% high salt diet (AIN76A 8%; Dyets; HS) which was maintained for a further 2 weeks. Additional 24-h urine collections were obtained on day 7 and 14 of HS feeding. Following 14 days of HS feeding, rats were anesthetized with isoflurane (2–5%) and tissue harvested for histology and biochemical analysis.
Rats were anesthetized (2–5% isoflurane) and blood pressure telemeters (Data Sciences International, St Paul, MN) surgically implanted according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Rats were allowed to recover for 1 week before beginning blood pressure recordings. During experimental protocols, blood pressure was recorded from the abdominal aorta 24 h daily in 10-min intervals and mean pressures over 24 h were reported.
Arterial blood gas measurements
Arterial blood gas and plasma electrolyte responses (including, pH, pCO2, pO2, HCO3−, Hct, Na, K, Cl, and glucose) were measured in a separate set of rats. Dahl SS rats obtained from Charles River Laboratories were anesthetized (2–5% isoflurane) and the left femoral artery was catheterized. Surgically implanted catheters were then tunneled under the skin and exposed between the shoulder blades. Catheters were protected by a light wire spring attached to a swivel (Instech Laboratories Inc, Plymouth Meeting, PA), which allows free 360-degree movement of the animal. Rats were individually housed and allowed to recover for 1 week before beginning experimental measurements. Catheters were filled with heparinized saline (30 U/ml) and connected to an infusion pump (Phd2000, Harvard Apparatus, Holliston, MA). Infusions of heparinized saline were maintained at 100 μl/h over the course of the protocol. Arterial blood samples (0.2 ml) were taken prior to placing rats on treated water, on day 3 of LS feeding and on day 7 of HS feeding by disconnecting the catheter from the infusion pump proximal to emergence of the catheter from the rat and drawing arterial blood into a heparinized 1 ml of syringe. Arterial blood gas measurements were performed on a Rapidpoint 4055 Blood gas analyzer (Seimens AG, Munich Germany) within 20 min of taking the sample. Arterial blood gas measurements on day 14 of HS feeding were taken at the time of killing by left ventricular puncture immediately after induction of anesthesia with isoflurane (2–5%).
Urine collection
For urine collection, rats were placed in metabolic cages for 24 h (Nalgene, Rochester, NY). Urine was collected and weighed for volume determination. Up to 10 ml of urine was stored at −80°C for later analysis. All urinary data are presented as 24-h urinary excretion.

NH4+ excretion
Urinary NH4+ concentration was determined using an ammonia ion selective electrode (Orion high performance ammonia ion selective electrode; Thermo Fischer Scientific Inc.). Urine samples were diluted in Orion ionplus Solution Alkaline Reagent immediately before measurement as per the manufacturer’s instructions. Measurements were compared with those of a standard curve using serial dilutions of the Thermo Scientific Orion Application Solution 0.1 M NH4+ Ammonium Standard. Final concentrations were calculated using a logarithmic curve (Graphpad Prism 6; Graphpad software Inc, La Jolla, CA).

Proteinuria
Urinary protein concentration was determined by standard Bradford assay (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA)
Ultrasound measurement of renal arterial blood velocity, an index of renal blood flow, was performed in a separate group of rats. Ultrasound was performed as described previously [13]. In brief, on the day of measurement rats were anesthetized with isoflurane (2–5%) and imaged in a supine position on a SA-11283 rat platform with integrated temperature sensor, heater, and ECG electrodes (VisualSonics, Toronto, Ontario, Canada). Rectal temperature was maintained at 37.5°C by a UV heating lamp. Depilatory cream (Nair, Ewing, NJ) was used to remove fur from the region of interest and medical ultrasound acoustic gel (Other-Sonic, Pharmaceutical Innovations, Newark, NJ) was used as a coupling fluid between the real-time microvisualization (RMV) scanhead and the skin. Ultrasound imaging was performed using the Vevo 770 system (VisualSonics, Toronto, ON, Canada). Using B-mode imaging, the RMV-716 scanhead was positioned and held immobile using the VisualSonics Vevo Integrated Rail System II to view the rat kidney. Renal artery blood velocity was measured using pulse-wave Doppler (PW-mode). Following a brief stabilization period, several measurements of pulse-wave Doppler blood velocity were obtained from the left renal artery and the mean velocity from all measurements recorded.
At the end of the study, rats were anesthetized with isoflurane (2–5%), the left and right renal arteries ligated and both kidneys excised. Kidneys were decapsulated, bisected, and placed in 10% formalin solution (Sigma; St Louis, MO) for 48 h before being paraffin embedded, blocked, and processed (Augusta University Core facility
Assessment of tubular casts
For assessment of tubular cast area, paraffin embedding sections were stained with Gomori’s Trichrome (Gomori’s Trichrome stain kit blue collagen, Richard-Allan Scientific, MI) as per the manufactures’ instructions. In brief, rat kidney sections (5 μm) were deparaffinized and hydrated with deionized water. Sections were then placed in Bouin’s Fluid at 56°C for 1 h. Sections were first stained in Weigert’s iron hematoxylin for 10 min, then stained in Trichrome for 15 min. Sections were then placed in 1% acetic acid solution for 1 min before being rinsed in deionized water, dehydrated, cleared, and mounted. Five nonoverlapping images were taken of each section at low power (5 magnification; (1 papilla region, 2 separate outer medulla regions, 2 separate cortex regions)) using an Olympus×BX40 microscope equipped with an Olympus DP72 camera and Olympus CellSens standard software (Olympus Inc, Japan). At this magnification, all of the medulla and most of the cortex were imaged. Images were then blinded to the investigator and sections were analyzed using MetaMorph offline software (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA) by color threshold for protein cast as data are expressed as % thresholded area of total tissue area.

Glomerular sclerosis
Gomori’s trichrome stained sections were blinded to the investigator and then scored by a renal pathologist as the % of glomeruli indicating sclerosis.

Fibrosis
Renal tissue fibrosis was determined using a Sirius Red/Fast Green Collagen Staining Kit (Chondrex Inc; Redmond, WA), according to the manufactures’ instructions. In brief, thick 15-μm sections were deparaffinized and hydrated with distilled water. Approximately 200 μl of dye solution was utilized to completely immerse the tissue sections. Sections were then incubated at room temperature in a moist chamber for 30 min. Sections were then rinsed with distilled water before adding 1 ml of dye extraction buffer to elute the dye from the tissue section. The eluate was collected into a 1.5 ml of disposable cuvette and read using a spectrophotometer (Genesys 10S UV-Vis spectrophotometer; Thermo Fischer Scientific Inc.) at OD 540 and 605 nm to determine collagen (an index of fibrosis) and non-collagenous proteins respectively. Data are expressed as collagen/non-collagenous proteins according with the manufacture’s instructions.
As we suspected NaHCO3 was acting to limit cast formation in Dahl SS rats by alkalinizing the tubular lumen of the thick ascending limb, we investigated whether an alternative approach to promote luminal alkalization would have a similar effect. As Hv1 promotes proton efflux from cells and, within the kidney, Hv1 is localized to the luminal membrane of TAL, we hypothesized that loss of this channel would promote luminal alkalization and prevent cast formation. To confirm that Hv1 promotes H+ efflux in perfused TAL, we measured intracellular pH changes in isolated perfused TAL from wild-type and Hv1−/− Dahl SS rats in response to addition of extracellular NH4Cl. NH4Cl is normally present in the luminal fluid, and due to its rapid uptake in actively transporting TAL, promotes cellular acidification in this segment [14]. LS fed wild-type and Hv1−/− Dahl SS rats (Augusta University) were anesthetized with isoflurane (2–5%), the kidney perfused with chilled Hank’s balanced salt solution (HBSS) pH 7.4 (20 mM HEPES) and isolation of mTAL tissue strips performed as described previously [15]. Renal thick ascending limb were dissected from the inner stripe of the outer medulla, placed on a glass coverslip coated with the tissue adhesive Cell-Tak (BD Biosciences, Bedford, MA). After loading with 2’,7’-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(and-6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF: 6 μmol/l) in Hank’s balanced salt solution for 1 h at room temperature, coverslips were transferred to an imaging chamber mounted on the stage of an inverted microscope (IX81 Olympus) that was maintained at 37°C (Warner Instruments) and allowed the rapid exchange of superfusion buffer. Glass pipettes (Drummond Scientific, Broomail, PA) were pulled to an internal diameter of 8–14 μm. The tip of these micropipettes was beveled and smoothed and mounted on a micromanipulator (World Precision Instruments) on the microscope stage. As our laboratory [16] has previously described, a micropipette was inserted into the open lumen of the mTAL, and the tubule was perfused with HBSS (pH 7.40) at ~10 nl/min. The signal was detected using a high-resolution digital camera (Photometrics Evolve, Roper Scientific). Excitation was provided by a Sutter DG-4 175W xenon arc lamp (Sutter Instruments) that allowed high-speed excitation wavelength switching. Regions of interest containing mTAL epithelial cells were selected within each TAL to quantify changes in fluorescent intensity of the BCECF dye using Metafluor imaging software (Universal Imaging). A BCECF fluorescence lens kit was utilized to collect the fluorescent signal (Chroma Technology Corp., Bellows falls, VT). Following perfusion with HBSS to stimulate transport activity, florescent signals were recorded for 200 s before exchanging the bath solution (HEPES buffered HBSS, pH 7.40) with an identical solution containing 1 mM NH4Cl and fluorescent signals recorded for a further 500 s.
We recently reported that oral NaHCO3 loading promotes anti-inflammatory M2 macrophage polarization in the spleen, and that these macrophages then infiltrate the kidney [17]. As infiltration of anti-inflammatory immune cells may be renal protective, we examined the effect of NaHCO3 on splenic macrophage polarization in wild-type and Hv1−/− Dahl SS rats. In order to evaluate the effect of NaHCO3 on the inflammatory phenotype of macrophages in wild-type and Hv1−/− Dahl SS rats, we employed a flow cytometry-based strategy as previously described by our group [18–21]. Spleens were harvested from wild-type and Hv1−/− Dahl SS rats at the end of the HS protocol and placed in RPMI + 10% FBS. Spleens were then injected with three 1 ml injections of 100 CD units/ml Collagenase IV (Worthington, Lakewood, NJ, U.S.A.) and placed in 1 ml of 400 CD units/ml Collagenase IV, incubated at 37°C for 30 min and minced. Single-cell suspensions were achieved using a 100 μM cell strainer (BD Biosciences, San Diego, CA) followed by centrifugation (1500 rpm, 10 min) and erythrocytes lysed by incubation with ACK lysing buffer (3 min; catalog no. 10–548E; BioWhittaker, Walkersville, MD, U.S.A.). Cells were then washed twice (10 mM EDTA in Ca/Mg-free PBS).

M1 (inflammatory) macrophages were identified as CD11b/F4/80/TNFα triple positive cells. M2 (regulatory/anti-inflammatory) macrophages were identified as CD11b/CD206/IL10 triple positive cells (Figure 6). Antibodies/reagents utilized are listed in Table 1. Cells were then incubated with antibodies for surface markers for 15 min at 4°C in the dark (all antibodies from Pharmingen-BD-Biosciences, San Jose, CA). Cells were then washed with PBS, fixed, and permeabilized using Cytofix-Cytoperm (eBiosciences, San Diego, CA) for 20 min in the dark at room temperature before incubation with antibodies for intracellular staining of TNFα and IL-10 on ice in the dark for 20 min (BD Biosciences). Cells were then washed and run through a four-color flow cytometer (FACS Calibur, Becton-Dickinson), and data were collected using CellQuest software.
Samples were double-stained with control IgG and cell markers and were used to assess any spillover signal of fluorochromes; proper compensation was set to ensure that the median fluorescence intensities of negative and positive cells were identical and were both gated populations. Gating was used to exclude dead cells and debris using forward and side scatterplots. In each analysis, 100,000 total events were collected. As a gating strategy, for each sample, isotype-matched controls were analyzed to set the appropriate gates. For each marker, samples were analyzed in duplicate measurements. To minimize false-positive events, the number of double-positive events detected with the isotype controls was subtracted from the number of double-positive cells stained with corresponding antibodies (not isotype control) respectively. Cells expressing a specific marker were reported as a percentage of the number of gated events.

Visualization of the spleen at midline/sham splenectomy: We have recently reported that breaking of fragile mesothelial connections to the spleen by splenic manipulation or total splenectomy, completely abolished the anti-inflammatory effect of NaHCO3 on macrophage polarization in the kidney [17]. Dahl salt-sensitive rats were anesthetized with isoflurane (2–5%) and a midline incision performed. The spleen was either (1) untouched; (2) located and gently moved toward the incision site by hand or with cotton tip applicators, the poles of the spleen visualized, and the spleen returned to its original position; (3) the splenic vessels ligated with silk ties and the spleen removed. The midline incision was then closed and rats allowed to recover. Following the surgical procedures, rats were allowed to recover for 7 days before entering the HS protocol described above.
For histological scoring (casts, glomerular sclerosis scores), all identifiers were removed and scored by an investigator unaware of the hypothesis being tested. Data were then compiled by the primary investigator who had access to the numbering key. Similarly, identifiers were removed from splenic tissue samples and flow cytometry gating and analysis performed by an investigator who was unaware of the hypothesis being tested. No animals or samples were excluded from any end-point analysis. Rats received from a commercial source (2–3 rats per cage) were randomly allocated to either vehicle or treatment, taking care to allocate at least one animal per cage to each group. Following 1 week of recovery, any animal with a mean arterial blood pressure of greater than 130 mmHg on a LS diet was excluded from further analysis according to prespecified exclusion criteria. One rat was excluded from the study using these criteria prior to any end-point analysis. All data from all other animals that entered the study are included in the analysis.
Data were analyzed using GraphPad Prism (GraphPad Inc.) or Microsoft excel (Microsoft corporation, Redmond, WA) software. Blood pressure data were analyzed using two-way repeated measures ANOVA. Multiple comparisons were analyzed using appropriate ANOVA. Specific statistical tests utilized for each analysis are listed in the figure legends. All other comparisons were analyzed via unpaired two-sided Student’s t-test (Microsoft Excel). Significance for all analysis was considered P<0.05.
PHBV was purchased from Goodfellow (Bad Nauheim, Germany), dichloromethane from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA), curcumin from Sigma-Aldrich (Steinheim, Germany) and Poly Vinyl Alcohol (PVA) from Baxter Healthcare (Opfikon, Switzerland). Tetraethyl orthosilicate [TEOS]–99%, triethyl phosphate [TEP]–99% and calcium nitrate were bought from Aldrich (Steinheim, Germany). Furthermore, ethyl acetate, cetyl-trimethylammonium bromide [CTAB] were provided from Merck (Darmstadt, Germany), ammonium hydroxide 28% from VWR (Fontenay Sous Bois, France), distilled water (MilliQ), and absolute ethanol–99.8% from Alfa Aesar (Kandel, Germany). All chemicals used were of an analytical grade.
The mesoporous bioactive glass nanoparticles were produced by using a modified Stöber procedure as reported by Nawaz et al. [6]. Briefly, 0.56 g of CTAB was dissolved in 26 mL of water and stirred for 15 min. Then, 8 mL of ethyl acetate was dropped carefully into the CTAB solution. Afterwards, 3 mL of TEOS were added under continuous stirring; then, ammonium hydroxide was added to maintain the pH at 10.5. Later, calcium nitrate and TEP were added carefully to the solution and then allowed for reacting under stirring for 3 h. Finally, the suspension was centrifugated at 7000 rpm in a 5430R from Eppendorf (Hamburg, Germany) for 10 min and washed with ultrapure water three times. The precipitates were dried in an oven at 60 °C overnight and then calcinated at 700 °C with a heating rate of 2 °C/min for 5 h.
For the fabrication of microspheres, a modified solid in oil in water emulsion (S/O/W) method was used, similarly to the technique reported in previous works [18,22]. Different amounts of MBGN were added into the PHBV solution in 10 mL dichloromethane. In this work, the concentrations of MGBN in the PHBV microspheres started at 10% (w/w) and increased gradually by 10% until reaching 50% (w/w) to obtain five PHBV/MBGN ratios of 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, 60:40 and 50:50 (w/w). Then, curcumin was loaded in all conditions at 90:10 (w/w) (PHBV/curcumin) ratio and mixed at 800 rpm to form the S/O phase. An aqueous solution of 1 mg/mL of PVA was prepared and mixed at 600 rpm to conform the W phase. The resulting solution was mixed at 19,000 rpm using a homogenizer T18 (IKA, Staufen, Germany). Afterwards, the emulsion was centrifuged and washed with ultrapure water twice, and the supernatant was completely removed. The microspheres precipitated were dried in an incubator at 60° for overnight and then stored protected from the light.
The Curcumin Entrapment Efficiency (CEE) was determined according to the supernatant method previously reported [22,44]. Briefly, microsphere samples were immersed in ethanol and then supernatant curcumin concentration was measured through a UV/Vis spectrophotometer Specord 250 (Analytikjena, Jena, Germany) at 425 nm. The entrapped efficiency was calculated by using the following equation:

CEE=(Mthe−Msup)(100%)Mthe
(1)
where Msup is the mass of curcumin measured in the supernatant (mg), and Mthe is the theoretical initial mass of curcumin added during the fabrication of the samples (mg).
The surface morphology of the composite microspheres was observed by Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) using a microscope Auriga (Zeiss, Munich, Germany). The microspheres were sputter coated with gold in a turbomolecular pumped coater Q150T Plus (Quorum, Laughton, UK), prior to SEM examination.
The size average measurements of the composite microspheres, MBGN and blank PHBV particles were performed by using a Zetasizer NanoZS (Marlvern, Worcestershire, UK) in deionized water. The zeta potential measurements of composite microspheres were carried out by suspending samples in PBS at pH: 7.5, MGBN and blank PHBV in deionized water.
The structural characterization of the composite microspheres was determined through FTIR by using a Nicolet 6700 Thermo Scientific FTIR spectrometer (Waltham, MA, USA). Measurements were carried out in absorbance mode at wavenumber range from 4000 to 400 cm−1 at a resolution of 4 cm−1. X-ray diffraction (XRD) was performed by using an X-ray diffractometer D8 advance Brucker (Billerica, MA, USA) in the range of 10° to 80° 2Ɵ with a step size of 0.01° and dwell time of 1° per minute.
Samples of microspheres at a 10:1 ratio of PHBV/MBGN were immersed in Simulated Body Fluid (SBF) for 7 days. SBF was produced according to the protocol of Kokubo [45]. Then, SBF was removed, and microsphere samples were stored and dried at room temperature for examination. The surface morphology of samples was analyzed as in Section 4.5. The XRD analysis of microsphere were performed by using X-ray diffractometer D8 advance Brucker (Billerica, MA, USA) in the range of 2Ɵ 26° to 39° with a step size of 0.01° and dwell time of 1° per minute.
For the curcumin release kinetics, 10 mg of composite microspheres were placed in sterile falcon tubes with caps by triplicates. Then, 10 mL of Phosphate Buffer Solution (PBS) at pH = 7.4 (Sigma-Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) was added into each falcon tube and stored at room temperature. The release kinetic curve was obtained in accordance with previously reported methods [19,22] by using the spectrophotometer Specord 250 (Analytikjena, Jena, Germany) at 425 nm.
Human osteoblasts like MG-63 cells (sourced from the Biomaterials Institute cell bank) were grown in Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% FBS (Gibco, Dreieich, Germany). In addition, 50,000 cells were seeded on 24 well-plates and incubated for 12 h before performing the biocompatibility tests.

Master solutions of 1.0 mg/mL of composite microspheres (from each PHBV/MBGN ratios), PHBV microspheres without loading and free MBGN were prepared. Afterwards, ten-fold serial dilutions (10, 100 and 1000 µL) from each master solution were added to the 24 plates already containing seeded cells. Experiments were carried out in triplicate. The cell viability was assessed after 24 h and 7 days post treatment by WST-8 assays (Sigma-Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) according to the provider instructions. Briefly, the well-plates’ supernatant was removed and washed with PBS; then, a freshly prepared cell culture medium was added containing 1.0% v/v WST-8 solution, followed by incubation for 2 h. Subsequently, 100 µl of supernatant from each well-plate was transferred into a 96 well-plate for absorbance measurement at 450 nm in a PHOmo Autobio (Labtec Instruments, Zhengzhou, China).
Samples were treated with Fluorescent DNA stain (DAPI) and Vybrant DyeCycle staining (both reagents from Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) for observation in a microscope AxioCam ERc 5s Primovert (Zeiss, Munich, Germany), after 24 h and after 7 days of incubation. Images were analyzed by using the open-source software Fiji (ImageJ, Bethesda, MD, USA).
Data were presented as the mean ± standard deviation of each treatment. Data were analyzed for statistical significance using the analysis of variance One-Way ANOVA followed by Tukey test (p < 0.05), using software Origin 8 (OriginLab, Northampton, MA, USA).
The data from Medical Genetic Center Register was analyzing by the MedCalc 15.8 program.
DNA samples extracted from peripheral blood of 41 patients with laparoscopically proved endometriosis and 43 ones from the control cohort were used. Real-time PCR was applied to analyze allelic variants of the WNT7A, WNT4, TWIST1 genes. Sanger sequencing of the 2nd exon of the HOXA10 gene was performed in 41 patients with proved endometriosis.
Samples of chorionic tissue and decidua were taken after surgical termination of normally progressing pregnancies and spontaneous abortion in 5-9 week of gestation. RNA expression was analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR method. Data were analyzed using the 2-ΔΔCT method.
Chromosomal Microarray Analysis (CMA) was performed in chorionic villi sample of aborted pregnancy of fetus with increased nuchal translucency and hydrops, and his 31 years old healthy mother.
48 Georgian women with pregnancy complication (IUGR of unknown origin) and 100 controls (women with three or more uncomplicated pregnancies) were investigated for detection of inherited thrombophilia by PCR analyses.
After fetal ultrasonogram showing recurrent primary microcephaly in the third pregnancy, fetal blood sample obtained by cordocentesis. The sample was used for standard cytogenetic analysis, aCGH and clinical exome next generation sequencing.
Lymphocyte cultures of peripheral blood from 150 individuals, mainly couples, were harvested and processed according to standard laboratory protocols. The samples were visualized using C-banding technique. At least 15 metaphases were analyzed visually per case, and 5 of them were karyotyped using MetaSystems Ikaros software and a Zeiss Axio Imager. Z.2 microscope
Exome sequencing was applied to three miscarried fetuses and the mother, who had experienced five live births, intersected by three early pregnancy losses, and six fetal deaths. Interestingly, 4/5 karyotyped fetal losses had a normal female karyotype, whereas all but one live-born children are male.
Prenatal testing at 13 weeks gestation was requested due to a maternal hypochondroplasia phenotype of unknown genetic background. Clinical exome sequencing was performed on DNA extracted from chorionic villi and maternal blood, using Sophia Genetics’ Clinical Exome Solution v2. Following preparations according to the manufacturer’s protocol, DNA libraries were sequenced on an Illumina NextSeq-500 genetic analyser. Data processing, variant calling and pre-classification were conducted by SOPHiA DDM® bioinformatics pipelines.
Karyotype was performed with the standar methods. Comparative genomic hybridation (CGH-Array) was performed with the Agilent platform, suplied by PerkinElmer.
We report a 57-year-old Scandinavian woman of non-consanguineous Danish Caucasian parents presenting with vision loss and metamorphopsia. Ophthalmological examination revealed massive hard drusen on both eyes in the macular region and nasal to the disc as well as macular hyperpigmentation. Optical coherence tomography on the left eye showed partly affected foveal configuration with slightly increased foveal thickness. The patient was clinically diagnosed with DHRD/ML and followed annually with stable conditions. Ten years later reduced visual acuity primarily on the left eye and increased atrophy with subretinal fluid were observed. Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) was administrated, but without effect. Family history revealed no other cases of reduced vision. Diagnostic next generation sequencing of seven genes (Amplexa FleckRet7 Panel) associated with flecked retina was performed at Amplexa Genetics using NovaSeq 6000. The mutation was verified by bidirectional Sanger sequencing.
High resolution melting (HRM) is a simple and high-throughput assay, which has been widely applied in sequence polymorphism identification. Our main goal was to test the suitability of HRM analysis as a genetic screening technique for XFS. We analyzed 26 XFS patients and 52 controls. We analyzed LOXL1 (rs1048661, rs3825942, rs2165241, rs16958477, rs12914489, rs11638944, rs7173049) and CACNA1A (rs4926244) genes. Detected variants were confirmed by Sanger sequencing
Ten familial cases of bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, severe to profound, non-syndromic, with complete audiological studies and tomographic image of the ear, were studied. Sanger sequencing of GJB2 was done and when no pathogenic variants were found in this gene, WES was performed.
The study included 232 patients (171 Tuvinians, 61 Altaians) with hearing loss of unknown etiology. Analysis of the SLC26A4 complete sequence including all 21 exons and flanking regions was performed by Sanger sequencing.
48 IRD patients and 2 positive controls were analyzed. We compared 2 hybridization arrays: Affymetrix CytoScan Xon arrays (ACX) and Agilent Custom arrays (ACA), with 123 IRD related genes.
The 10 corneal epithelia before the corneal cross-linking procedure were stampted to maintain correct orientation for cutting on microscope slides with light microscope’s control. As non-keratoconus control 5 myopia patients undergoing refractive error correction were included. From each corneal epithelium the central, middle, and periphery corneal region samples were proceeded based on epithelial thickness mapping and corneal tomography maps. The RNA samples were extracted using Norgen Biotek kits (Single Cell RNA Purification Kit, RNA/DNA/Protein Purification Plus Micro Kit), and RNA quality/quantity were compered (RNA 6000 Pico Kit, Agilent).
We included in this study 144 unrelated Romanians with non-syndromic congenital severe to profound hearing loss (NSHL). All of the individuals were screened by Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) for mutations in GJB2, GJB3, GJB6, WFS1 and POU3F4 genes, and Sanger sequencing for variants in GJB2 gene.
In the current study we included two Bulgarian patients diagnosed with retinoblastoma. DNA was isolated from blood. Next-generation sequencing was performed on MiSeq/Illumina platform with TruSight Cancer panel including 94 cancer related genes.
Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed in all index cases. Variants with minor allele frequency less than 0.005 as per gnomAD v.2 were filtered and those located in genes listed in database Cat-Map were given a priority for further evaluation. Conventional sequencing was used to confirm the presence of the variants and for segregation analysis within the families. Variant-classification was based on the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines.
Using Illumina® platform, we identified two pathogenic variants in two USH genes (PCDH15 and ADGRV1) segregating with vision and hearing loss in two unrelated Bulgarian families.
120 patients with isolated and syndromic retinitis pigmentosa participated in the study under NCT03901391 clinical trial protocol. Out of 120 cases six were CLRN1 confirmed. Complete ophthalmologic, ENT, and vestibular medical tests were done for clinical characterization. WES, Sanger sequencing were provided for genetic analysis and diagnosis confirmation.
Clinical, biochemical and genetic characterization of a group ofpatients clinically diagnosed with Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus. TheAVP-NPII gene was screened for mutations by polymerase chain reaction followed bydirect Sanger sequencing in 15 different unrelated families from Spain.
We performed MLPA analysis for detection of large deletions and duplications in CFTR gene, using P091 MLPA MRCHolland kit in a group of 44 CF patients with only one mutation.
A comprehensive, phenotype-driven, approach was used to identify underlying mutations in Macedonian cohort of CH patients, by sequentially screening known dyshormonogenesis-associated genes. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes, and Sanger sequencing was used to screen for TPO gene mutations in all coding exons and exon/intron boundaries amplified by PCR specific primers
The study population consisted of 485 Greek individuals screened for CF mutations. We used a targeted NGS to sequence all CFTR gene coding regions, intron/exon splice sites and UTRs, combined with MLPA analysis
Recruitment of the patient, exome sequencing and functional analyses were carried out at the Angers University Hospital.
We report two cases with ESRD in patients with extrarenal organ involvement. A 14 year old boy with a history of perinatal asphyxia presented with a first seizure and ESRD. In addition he showed a psychomotor developmental retardation, muscular hypotonia and facial dysmorphism. The second patient was a newborn with congenital kidney failure, cleft palate, microcephaly, hypothyroidism and also facial dysmorphism. WES revealed a heterozygous variant in the KANSL1 gene (c.1284delA:p.V428fs) in the 14 year old patient not detected in the mother (father unavailable) and a heterozygous de novo variant in the KMT2D gene (c.C8434T:p.Q2812X) in the newborn. Both variants have not been previously described in literature.
A 17-year-old female with tubulointerstitial nephritis was referred for whole exome sequencing (WES). WES was performed on DNA extracted from peripheral blood, using the Twist Human Exome Core-v2 kit (Twist Bioscience). Following preparations according to the manufacturer’s protocol, libraries were sequenced on an Illumina NextSeq-500 genetic analyser. Data processing, variant calling and pre-classification were conducted by SOPHiA DDM® bioinformatics pipelines. Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA) was performed (P387-C1, Coffalyser net, MRC-HOLLAND) to further confirm results.
Based on the analysis of scientific literature and genomic databases, the list of genes and polymorphisms associated with KSD in different countries was formed. The information was obtained from case-control studies and GWAS. Finally, we formed a genetic panel which included SNPs of VDR, CASR, CALCR, SLC34A1, CLDN14, TRPV5, TRPV6, KLOTHO, ORAI1, ALPL, RGS14, OPN, MGP, PLAU, AQP1, DGKH genes. The study group consisted of 77 patients with KSD. The control group included 76 persons without urolithiasis. Genetic analysis was carried out by next generation sequencing using the Ion S5 platform. We also studied the presence of familial cases of KSD in the observed group
Report of clinical manifestations, laboratory examination and imaging data in family related foetus and child with different features of NPHP. A NGS panel for cholestasis was performed.
We describe a three-generation Maltese-Caucasian family with a variable CCHS/Hirschsprung phenotype, characterised by chronic constipation, three siblings with Hirschsprung disease necessitating surgery and chronic hypoxia requiring non-invasive ventilation.
We will set-up the GeNepher Data- and Biobank. Dutch patients with known and suspected hereditary renal disease are eligible for inclusion. Informed consent will cover use of available medical data, use of available DNA/sequencing data and in selected cases consent for additional blood sampling, skin biopsy or urine collection.

The GeNepher Data- and Biobank will be used to:

Answer questions regarding etiology. In unsolved cases we will perform add-on analyses to identify new candidate genes for renal disease. In order to optimally identify new candidates, and to gain new insights, we are developing a kidney specific gene network using kidney derived RNA-sequencing data. Ultimately we will perform functional studies to validate plausible candidates. In GeNepher there is an infrastructure for return of relevant findings.

Study modifiers of progressive renal disease like NPHP1-nephronophtisis.

Contact patients for opportunities in treatment development or when diagnose specific trials are started or treatment is approved.
Thirteen new patients with RHUC were analyzed by sequencing the SLC22A12 and SLC2A9 coding exons. To determine whether patients with the p.(T125M) mutation had a common p.(T125M)-linked haplotype a SNPs-haplotype analysis was performed. A total of nine patients from apparently unrelated families were included in this analysis. Six informative SNPs were analyzed by PCR amplification from genomic DNA and direct sequencing.
34 patients with WD were studied using two long range PCR (exon 2-9; exon 10-21 ATP7B gene). Fragmentation, indexing, library preparation (NEBNext Ultra DNA library prep kit) and sequencing in a MiSeq platform (Illumina) were performed. Exon 1 was analysed by Sanger sequencing.
Two siblings were presented us because of chronic and superficial itchy skin lesions. After the dermatological examinations, clinical exome solutionwas performed for the molecular diagnosis of one of the patients. Sanger sequencing was performed for the other patient to find if there is the same mutation.
Based on a survey regarding gene scope and available methodology in AIDs laboratories (Rowczenio et al, 2019), and on annotation of AIDs gene variants by experts’ consensus (van Gijn et al, 2018; Infevers data base), a draft of recommendations was written by European Molecular Genetics Quality Network members. The recommendations were discussed by a panel of experts of the International Society for Systemic AIDs (ISSAID) during a consensus meeting.
We performed trio exome sequencing in two individuals who presented with disproportionate short stature, micrognathia as well as mild bilateral radial deviation and ulnar clinodactyly of the index fingers, but without radiological signs of hyperphalangism
Subjects. Two Spanish adult brothers (41/38 years old) born to consanguineous parents presenting with a long history of hypohidrosis, dry skin, alacrimia and xerostomia, diagnosed as ectodermal dysplasia (ED). Complementary exams showed renal loss of NaCl with secondary hyperaldosteronism, hypercalcemia, hypermagnesemia and hypokalemia. Genetic analysis. CLDN10 gene was designed with Primer3 software for all coding exons. Sanger sequencing was performed using BigDye terminator (Life-Technologies), analysed in ABI3130 Genetic Analyser (Applied-Biosystems) and aligned with human reference genome GRCh37/hg19; the identified variant was segregated in progenitors.
The study of 200 children with congenital spine deformities (CSD) and 96 healthy children without pathology of the spine was carried out. Molecular diagnostics was carried out by analysis of multiple polymorphic regions in the genes of detoxification and DNA repair. Genotyping of the gene polymorphism was performed using polymerase chain reaction.
The female patient with psychomotor delay, intellectual disability and multiple CS and her healthy parents were subjected to standard karyotyping analysis. Next, we have implemented array comparative genomic hybridisation (array CGH) for the proband (SurePrint G3 Human CGH Microarray 4×180; Agilent Technologies), followed by microarray-based genes expression profiling (one-color SurePrint G3 Unrestricted GE 8x60K microarray; Agilent Technologies)
We conducted a structured PubMed-search and added selected studies from our archives. A total of 66 papers were included for detailed review. In addition, we are conducting a heritability analysis in the Norwegian Twin Registry using Falconer’s method
The study was carried out in a group of 100 patients with hypermobile type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Control group consisted of 100 persons from general population. Sequencing analysis of gene TANGO1 was performed using Sanger sequencing technique. Results Among 100 hEDS patients in two c.1099A>T (p.Thr367Ser) variant and in next three patients c.2637C>A (p.Asp879Glu) variant were detected. All patients were not mutation carriers of other connective tissue protein coding genes (previous study). According to ACMG guideline variants were evaluated as VUS.
We present our results for pediatric patients with different skeletal dysplasia who were first assessed in genetic outpatient clinic at Department of Clinical Genetics, University Children’s Hospital in Belgrade and referred for diagnostic whole exome sequencing (WES), from 2015 to 2019. WES was performed for all 51 patients.
Genomic DNA was isolated from EDTA blood using a standard protocol. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) was used to analyse PHEX gene in the probands. Sanger sequencing was used to perform the study in the mother’s proband.
normal results for 7-dehydrocholesterol levels made Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome unlikely, and we suspected a submicroscopic chromosomal anomaly or an unknown syndrome as the underlying cause. We performed karyotyping and CGH, which revealed normal results, followed by whole exome sequencing (WES).
Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) was performed on the two affected individuals. An in-depth analysis of GDF5 genotype-phenotype correlations was performed through literature reviewing and retrieving information from several databases to elucidate GDF5 related molecular pathogenic mechanisms.
We here describe the natural history of GVM disease in a three-generation family and report on the identification and characterization of a GLMN splice site mutation by NGS gene panel sequencing and transcript analysis.
For research, genomic DNA samples of unrelated patients with hEDS were used (9 females and 23 males). In all cases, the diagnosis was established by international recommendations for 2017 EDS. Whole-exome sequencing was performed on a HiSeq2500. Assessment of the pathogenicity of the identified variants was based on the recommendations of ACMG and Sherloc on the interpretation of data obtained by the next-generation sequencing method.
Data was collected from the genetic history of patients of the “Republican Genetic Register of Hereditary and Congenital Pathology of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia)” of the Medical Genetics Center of the Republican hospital №1 “National center of medicine”.
A case-study. Two Caucasian women (mother and daughter; age 63 and 33 years) with Larsen syndrome carrying a novel FLNB c.688G>T, p.(Val230Phe) variant were included. A bone morphologic evaluation was performed including DXA-scanning and high-resolution peripheral quantitative tomography (HR-pQCT scan) evaluating their bone microstructure. Furthermore, an iliac crest bone biopsy from the mother was evaluated by µCT.
A 20-year-old female suspected of Maffucci syndrome presented multiple cartilage deformities as well as hemangiomas and lymphangiomas disseminated along her body. Clinical exome sequencing was performed on the DNA extracted from patient’s blood, using Sophia Genetics’ Clinical Exome Solution v2. Following preparations according to the manufacturer’s protocol, DNA libraries were sequenced on an Illumina NextSeq-500 genetic analyser. Data processing, variant calling and pre-classification were conducted by SOPHiA DDM® bioinformatics pipelines
Clinical information and peripheral blood samples were collected from 25 patients with Marfan or Marfan-like phenotype and heart defects. DNA extraction and Whole Exome Sequencing (WES), analysing approximately 19.000 genes dispersed throughout the genome-were applied.
We present a 25 months old girl from fifth pregnancy with complications. She was born small for gestational age with dysmorphic facial features, skeletal abnormalities, arthrogryposis, and hypoplastic labia majora, without typical webbing.
Here, we describe a case of a 6-year-old Yakut girl who presented with clinical signs of SOPH syndrome, acute liver failure (ALF) and bone fragility by the type of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). Targeted panel sequencing for 494 genes of connective tissue diseases was performed on our patient. To predict the protein-damaging effects of the suspected pathogenic variations in NBAS, three different software programs were used: Polyphen-2, SIFT, MutationTaster.
A 4-year-old boy presented with an approximately two-year history of erythema, scaling and diffuse, yellowish, transgredient keratoderma of palms and soles. He had associated interdigital macerations, dystrophia of several nails and recurrent fungal and bacterial infections. He was born as the second child of non-consanguineous parents and there was no family history of similar skin disease. The parents were from families living in different regions of Denmark. Genetic testing was performed using a next-generation sequencing-based gene panel targeting 28 genes related to palmoplantar keratoderma
The clinical workup was performed for each affected individual. NGS was performed using the Illumina TruSight One (4813 genes) and TruSight Cardio (174 genes) Sequencing Panels on MiSeq Illumina platform, as by amplicon-based approach, but also PCR and Sanger were used.
A female fetus was diagnosed with asymmetric bilateral short long bones and stippling of the proximal epiphyses of the humerus by prenatal ultrasound examination at 21weeks of gestation. Absence of nasal bones was also observed previously at 13weeks. Amniocentesis was performed for molecular analysis through array CGH and a 531 genes NGS panel for skeletal dysplasia. The pregnancy was terminated at 23weeks of gestation. Fetal gross examination, postnatal X-rays and steroid chromatography in amniotic liquid were performed to assist in the diagnosis.
Genetic variants in 24 genes which encoded proteins related to pathways involved in atherothrombosis were analyzed by next generation sequencing in 24 patients with AMI. Mutation found was confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Visualization of the mutation using pdb viewer and in silico prediction of the effects produced by the mutation (Mutation Tester, SNAP2, SIFT2, Polyphen, PhD-SNP) were performed.
A 58-year-old woman with xanthomas, corneal clouding and familial history of isquemic cardiopathy, was remitted to our service for genetic testing. The patient had extremely low levels of apoA-I (<16.0 mg/dL) and HDL-C (6 mg/dL) in serum. Genes involved in cholesterol metabolism were analyzed by Next Generation Sequence (NGS) using a customized panel of 411 genes related with metabolic diseases.
A 56-year-old man with raised levels of LDL-c in serum, with family history and premature coronary artery disease. The DNA sample from patient was analysed by NGS using a customized panel METABOL-v2 of 411 genes. LDL isolated from patient and the control were incubated with HepG2 cells. Uptake and binding were measured by flow cytometry in order to determine the impact of APOB variant.
We analysed data from 1660 unrelated Romanian Caucasian subjects (835 with AH and 825 normotensive). The average age of the hypertensive patients and controls were 54.66±4.30 and 47.73±4.05, respectively. The ACE ID and MTHFR C677T polymorphisms were genotyped using PCR based methods. Statistical tests were conducted with StatsDirect. The significance of the differences in observed frequencies of polymorphisms was assessed by chi-squared test (p<0.05). The distribution of the genotypes in all lots respects Hardy Weinberg equilibrium condition.
This case-control study was performed on 1057 participants. The sample included 431 patients (243 males, 188 females) of Croatian origin with non-fatal acute myocardial infarction and 626 participants in the control group without MI. Three SNPs were analyzed in CLOCK (rs13124436, rs6811520, and rs11932595), and three in the ARNTL gene (rs12363415, rs4757144, and rs3789327).
The following methods were used in this work: clinical-genealogical, cytogenetic including cytomolecular (FISH), biochemical (TMS) and conventional clinical and instrumental methods.
78 polymorphic variants of 41 genes involved in inflammation, lipid metabolism, endothelial function, blood coagulation and innate immune response were analyzed in 260 coronary artery disease patients with stable angina and 300 healthy donors (control) resident in Kemerovo Region using PCR method.
Whole-exome sequencing was performed on two DNA pools set up of Alzheimer patients (n=70) and healthy individuals (n=100), respectively. After reads quality filtering, 143,493 genetic variants detected in both pools were annotated. A list of variants associated with CHD was compiled using the publicly available ENSEMBL database (n=1479). We surveyed the pool data for presence of CHD associated variants and selected those present in both pools.
A case-control study was performed to investigate the relation between this polymorphism and the CAD development. 290 patients and 216 controls were screened for the mentioned SNP by Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLP) method.
Analyzing steps encompass variant calling, variant annotation with best fitting tool using apposite databases, and final refinement of the variants. The workflow consists of BWA-GATK best practices, Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor and bix2mus (custom-made tool). In this study, 100 samples of individuals with diagnosed cardiomyopathy are processed giving a statistically powerful dataset. The workflow was written in the CWL.
We report on middle aged patient with familial history and developed HCM. Exome sequencing was performed on the patient’s extracted DNA, followed by a targeted analysis of genes from the “Cardio” gene panel. Results were validated by Sanger sequencing.
The study cohort included 99 unrelated patients with HCM. We performed targeted exome sequencing and a subsequent bioinformatic analysis using the various algorithms for prediction of the potential pathogenicity of variants, as well as the ClinVar database.
Genetic variants in 36 genes encoded proteins related to pathways involved in atherothrombosis were analyzed by next generation sequencing in 12 patients with FV during AMI. Mutations found were confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Visualization of the mutation using pdb and in silico prediction of the effects produced by the mutation (Mutation Tester, SNAP2, SIFT2, Polyphen, PhD-SNP) were performed.
The study included 26 families of LVNC patients. For all individuals was performed exome sequencing on Illumina Nextseq 550.
Primary human coronary- (HCAEC) and internal thoracic artery endothelial cells (HITAEC) were used in this research. Cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay was performed to score genotoxic stress markers in exposed and control cell cultures. Concentration of IL-6 and IL-8 in culture medium and mRNA level of the corresponding genes were measured immediately after 6 hours of cell incubation with mutagen and 24 hours after elimination of MMC from cell cultures, using ELISA and RT-qPCR.
Venous blood samples were recruited from patients (n=100) with implanted LVADs (HW, HM2, HM3) at the National Research Center for Cardiac Surgery. Warfarin was prescribed according to clinical protocol (min=0.9mg; max=7.2mg; Std.=1.15). Genotyping was done for MTHFR (*1) rs1801133 and MTHFR (*2) rs1801131 by real-time polymerase chain reaction with TaqMan probes.
Three female probands with de novo ALG13 c.320A>G variant (P3, with the most severe psychomotor impairment, also heterozygous for c.3433C>T in the CACNA1A gene).
Transferrin isoforms examined by isoelectric focusing (IEF) of iron saturated serum in agarose gel in a pH gradient 5-7 with immunofixation, demonstrated as the percentage of each isoform fraction in a densitometric scan.
Three female probands with de novo ALG13 c.320A>G variant (P3, with the most severe psychomotor impairment, also heterozygous for c.3433C>T in the CACNA1A gene).
Methods: Transferrin isoforms examined by isoelectric focusing (IEF) of iron saturated serum in agarose gel in a pH gradient 5-7 with immunofixation, demonstrated as the percentage of each isoform fraction in a densitometric scan.
With the approval of our institutional ethics committee, DNA samples from the patient and her parents were analyzed by WES.
To identify patients with atypical forms of MPS, Pompe, Gaucher, Fabry disease among residents of Kharkov region in 2018. In Kharkiv region, selective screening for accumulation diseases has begun.
We analyzed genomic DNA samples from 217 unrelated individuals with suspected HPP (inclusion criteria: low and/or recurrent low levels of ALP, low growth, recurrent fractures and others). Primers’ system for Sanger sequencing was designed and validated for coding 2-12 exons of ALPL gene. Exome data of 353 of unrelated individuals (in-house control group) was used for genetic variant estimation of prevalence in Northwest Russia.
The frequencies and spectrum of causes mutations in patients with Gaucher (n=62), Niemann-Peak A/B (n=16), metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) (n=28), mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) (n=17), mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (MPS III A) (n=21), GM1-gangliosidosis (n=32) were analyzed. Mutation analysis was performed using classical PCR analysis and Sanger sequencing. Comparative analysis of the common mutations in different populations was performed according to the published data.
We included 13 GCK and 14 HNF1A-MODY patients.
Further investigations were performed. CT showed skull hyperostosis, thickening of left clavicle and vertebrae (dysostosis multiplex) and femoral head necrosis. EEG was hypovoltated with epileptiform discharge. Genetic testing (panel for mucopolysaccharidoses) was performed.
We present two unrelated families of Dagestan origin with three 1-year-old male members with cholestasis hepatopathy and development delay. Parents of one family were consanguineous. All patients were born at term, had appropriate birth weights for gestational age. From 2 months of age they have had poor feeding, development delay. Physical examination showed jaundiced, hepatosplenomegaly and coagulopathy. At 1year of age, they couldn’t sit and stand on their own. Two sibs (monozygous twins) had very low cholesterol level and normal GGT. The concentrations of C26 and phytanic acid in plasma were increased and made up respectively 13.2mM/ml (normal 0.22-2.2nN/ml) and 59.42mg/ml (normal 0-3.11mg/dl); ratio of C26/C22 was 0.149 (normal 0.009-0.018). Another patient had normal phytanic acid concentration in plasma (0.01 mg/ml) but high level of C26 and C26/C22 (15.4 and 0.312 respectively). All children had normal bile acid concentration in urine.
During the 20 years, more than 3,100 patients with PKU and HPA were diagnosed in the DNA-diagnostic laboratory of “RCMG”. Among them, 30 patients with BH4-HPA were identified. Sanger sequencing of PTS and QDPR genes and custom panel NGS sequencing of all HPA genes and DNAJC12 were performed
During the 20 years, more than 3,100 patients with PKU and HPA were diagnosed in the DNA-diagnostic laboratory of “RCMG”. Among them, 30 patients with BH4-HPA were identified. Sanger sequencing of PTS and QDPR genes and custom panel NGS sequencing of all HPA genes and DNAJC12 were performed
a retrospective analysis of family history, detailed clinical history since infancy and adulthood, physical evaluation by geneticist for contrasting phenotype combined with immunological tests and trio exome sequencing
The aCGH technique was used to determine the genetic background of developmental abnormalities in a 8-year-old female Macedonian patient. The blood-derived DNA sample was analyzed using the Affymetrix® CytoScanTM 750K Array (Applied Biosystems) that includes 550 k non-polymorphic and 200 k SNP markers. The data were interpreted by using Chromosome Analysis Suite (ChAS) Software (v4.0).
We performed phenotype analysis and exome sequencing on two individuals with intellectual disability and developmental delay of unknown cause
Clinical data was collected from the patient’s medical records and compared with previous reports from scientific literature and databases.
aCGH analysis was perform in pediatric patient with dysmorphia and motor delay using the CytoScan_750k Array platform (Affymetrix) which comprises 550 k non-polymorphic and 200 k SNP markers by the Chromosome Analysis Suite (ChAS) Software (v4.0
aCGH analysis was perform in pediatric patient with dysmorphia and motor delay using the CytoScan_750k Array platform (Affymetrix) which comprises 550 k non-polymorphic and 200 k SNP markers by the Chromosome Analysis Suite (ChAS) Software (v4.0
A two year-old girl patient was referred to our genetic clinic for intellectual disability and hypotonia. There was a first-degree consanguinity between the parents. This patient had microcephaly, facial dysmorphism including upslanting palpebral fissure, bulbous nose, cleft lip and palate, pectus excavatum, intellectual disability, developmental delay, hypotonia and increased alkaline phosphatase level. One out of three sisters of index patient had similar clinical features. The other family members were healthy. Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed to the index patient. Sanger seguencing analysis was used for family segregation analysis.
Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed using IlluminaTruSeq® ExomeKit and IDT xGen® Exome Research Panel on Illumina NextSeq 500
During molecular diagnostic procedure analysis of FMR1 gene for FRAXA syndrome and panel of 264 genes correlated with autism and mental retardation (NGS) were performed.
During molecular diagnostic procedure analysis of FMR1 gene for FRAXA syndrome and panel of 264 genes correlated with autism and mental retardation (NGS) were performed.
Whole-genome sequencing was performed in a 5-year-old male patient to identify the disease-causing mutation. Libraries were prepared using TruSeqTM DNA PCR-Free HT Library Prep Kit (Illumina) and sequenced on NovaSeq 6000 platform (Illumina) with 150bp paired-end chemistry. The detected mutation was validated by Sanger sequencing.
Studied 184 patients during hospitalization due to alcohol dependence and 99 people with control group. In study, used the scales: PACS, scale of hunger before meals and also molecular testing of COMT and DRD2 polymorphism.
A large autosomal dominant BP family with eleven affected subjects was included in the study. Mental health of seven family members was ascertained by clinical observation and by the use of specific tests. Exome sequencing was performed in all members. Variants prioritization was performed on the basis of the frequency (<5%), evidence of pathogenicity and association with BP.
Blood DNA was obtained from 8 family members: five patients diagnosed of BD, another patient with other mental disorder and two healthy individuals. WES was performed using SureSelect-Human-AllExonV6+UTR (AgilentTechnologies) libraries and sequencing on Illumina-NovaSeq6000. Alignment and variant calling was performed by SureCall and variant filtering by a custom pipeline for cohort analyses on Alissa Interpret softwares (AgilentTechnologies).
We performed whole exome sequence (WES) to search for disease-causing variants in 13 patients with complex clinical phenotypes involving cerebellar ataxia and one or more of the following symptoms: spasticity, peripheral neuropathy, epilepsy, dysmorphic features, intellectual disability.
A 47-year-old patient presenting CMT disease was sampled with peripheral blood collected in EDTA tubes after giving her informed consent. Genomic DNA was extracted by standard methods. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) strategy was performed using a 92 genes custom panel designed for CMT and associated neuropathies diagnosis.
A 47-year-old patient presenting CMT disease was sampled with peripheral blood collected in EDTA tubes after giving her informed consent. Genomic DNA was extracted by standard methods. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) strategy was performed using a 92 genes custom panel designed for CMT and associated neuropathies diagnosis.
A 47-year-old patient presenting CMT disease was sampled with peripheral blood collected in EDTA tubes after giving her informed consent. Genomic DNA was extracted by standard methods. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) strategy was performed using a 92 genes custom panel designed for CMT and associated neuropathies diagnosis.
Whole-exome sequencing (WES) with Ion Proton technology was performed in 138 individuals from 23 families including at least 2 MS patients. We compared patients with MS, patients with other autoimmune disease and healthy individuals. Signalling pathways and genes related to MS were analysed. Variant filtering and prioritization were performed with an own pipeline using criteria to include relevant and functional variants associated to MS
Genetic testing for FXS was requested in a male infant born to a mother known to harbour a FXS full mutation (>200 CGG-repeats). The maternal grandmother was a carrier of a FXS premutation. Analysis of CGG-repeats of the FMR1 gene was performed using PCR, RP-PCR, and Sanger sequencing. STR markers were used in linkage analysis.
The analysis was undertaken on 140 FTD patients grouped in two DNA pools (original and replicate) and a control DNA pool of 100 age-matched healthy subjects. The WES was performed in BGI Genomics at a mean coverage of at least 250 x per sample and the obtained variants were filtered by stringent criteria.
Hundred-twenty-six patients were referred (age at referral: 57+13,7years) to our institute with clinically suggested prion disease during 2015-2019. Sanger sequencing was applied to analyze the entire coding region of PRNP gene.
We used whole exome sequencing (WES) to identify the causative genes in 22 patients with NDD. Consanguinity was reported in all families. Genomic DNA was extracted using the QIAamp DNA Blood Mini QIAcube Kit (QIAGEN, Hilden, Germany). The DNA libraries were created by the Nextera DNA Exome kit (Illumina) and sequenced on NextSeq 500 sequencer using 2x150 bp sequencing kits (Illumina). Bioinformatic analyses were performed on Seqgenomize platform including an automated variant classification tool.
Clinical assessment, brain MRI, EEG, biochemical profile and genetic testing were performed for a 25 years old male patient that presented with progressive neurological symptoms, generalized myoclonic jerks, unilateral left upper body tremor and rigidity, walking difficulties, swallowing difficulties, poor concentration and attention, behavioral changes and bouts of anger.
Our study included 64 consecutive PD outpatients at Hoehn and Yahr disease stage 1. The severity of PD, depression, anxiety, and cognitive impairment were evaluated using rating scales: Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part (I-IV), Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score, Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D), and Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A). Patients completed the same protocol at Years 1, 2, 3, and 5. Genotyping of TNF-α rs1800629, IL-1β rs16944, and IL-6 rs1800795 was performed using TaqMan real-time PCR assays
Toxic models of PD in rodents and various samples of patients with PD were studied using sequencing of full exome, transcriptome, and RT-PCR.
We gathered clinical information and DNA samples from 3 families with primary headaches and associated phenotypes. Afterwards, a WES was performed.
Previously several genes (ATXN3, ATXN2, APOE, CACNA1A) were described as candidate genes in literature. We are genotyping two big cohorts EUROSCA (Europe) and EUSAge (Israel, Brazil, Peru) in terms of single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) within candidate genes.
We analyzed leukocytes of 469 healthy donors (HD) and 777 patientswith schizophrenia (F20.00, SP). CN was determined using non-radioactive hybridization withbiotin-labelled DNA probes.
In this study we use molecular techniques to investigate a large pedigree with many affected individuals from an isolated village in central Greece affected by a high incidence of Parkinson’s disease. We utilized whole exome sequencing and linkage analysis to identify coding variants that are of putative significance. We then apply association analysis across a wider population to highlight the significance of these variants in sporadic cases
DNA isolated from peripheral blood was used. 37 probands with spasticity and ataxia were subjected to whole exome sequencing (WES), followed by bioinformatic analysis. Most families were consanguineous.
The full-term newborn presented with microcephaly (-3.3SD) and small capillary malformations in different areas of the body. Focal myoclonic spasms developed from the 3rd month of age. At the 6th month, the focal EEG abnormalities, brain atrophy and profound developmental delay with hypotonia led to suspicion of the early infantile myoclonic encephalopathy. Similar clinical findings were documented in her older sister deceased at the 9th month of age. Consanguinity was recorded in the family pedigree. The molecular diagnosis was found by whole-exome sequencing (Illumina NextSeq platform) using Human Core Exome Kit (Twist Bioscience) and confirmed by Sanger sequencing. The detected variants were annotated by Ingenuity Variant Analysis (Qiagen) and classified according to the ACMG criteria.
A seven-month-old girl was presented with hydronephrosis, seizure, microbrachycephaly, bilateral hypoplastic fifth fingernails, abnormal distal phalanx morphology of fingers on radiography and persistent hyperphosphatasia. There was no consanguinity of her parents. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) analysis was performed to evaluate genetic etiology
We have studied the DNA of 43 Russian CMT-patients (25 myelinopathy, 18 axonopathy) after excluding the most common cause of CMT – PMP22 duplications. MPS libraries were prepared with the use of Ion AmpliSeq™reagents and sequencing by Ion S5™System. Panel includes 15 CMT genes: MFN2, MPZ, EGR2, FGD4, LITAF, PMP22, PRX, MORC2, SH3TC2, HINT1, HSPB1, NEFL, NDRG1, GDAP1, GJB1, mutations in which were previously identified as the cause of the disease for at least 2 unrelated Russian families.
In our case, a four-year-old boy was examined, who born with hypotonia and showed delayed motor development. At the age of three, EMG analysis showed axonal polyneuropathy and motor nerve conduction could not be detected in his legs. After the analysis of copy number variations of PMP22 and SMN genes, further neuropathies associated genes were sequenced without any results. Finally, whole exome sequencing was performed, and the results were analysed by focusing on primer neuropathy associated genes.
The genetic network was reconstructed using ANDSystem (Ivanisenko, 2015). Network included all genes and proteins associated with HD (n=140). The list of genes of apoptosis was retrieved from KEGG (hsa04210 identifier, n=136). Prioritization was carried using ToppGene and functions of ANDSystem. The special criteria were calculated, including: betweenness centrality, stress centrality, closeness centrality, cross-talk centrality and cross-talk specificity (Saik et al., 2018). The search of miRNA was conducted using MirTarBase database.
A clinical case of LGMD 2E in a 9 year old child. Clinical, genealogical, laboratory and instrumental and molecular-genetic methods were used.
The stillbirth, born from non-consanguineous parents, presented hydrops, lower limbs hyperextension with bending of the hips, bilateral club-foot and congenital fractures. Prenatal ultrasound had showed bilateral club-foot, closed fists and fetal biometric parameters at middle-lower limits. Microarray analysis was performed on DNA extracted from umbilical cord. Data were analyzed by CytoGenomics software. Next Generation Sequencing analysis was performed using the TruSightOne sequencing panel kit. NGS data were processed and analyzed using an in-house implemented pipeline.
We want to present most interestingly our patient-male (30 years) with Myotonic Dystrophy Type I disease, the exact number of repeats of the CTG trinucleotide for both alleles of the DMPK1 gene was detect by PCR-Fragman analysis. Afterwards, the age of the disease, the clinical severity of the disease, radiological and laboratory findings were compared with these patients. In addition, detailed pedigree analysis of the patients was performed and thus anticipation and variable expressivity of the disease was determined.
After the DNA was isolated from the peripheral blood sample of the patient, the data obtained by microarray using the “afyymetrix cytoscan optima array kit” were analyzed for gain or loss according to the GRCh37 (hg19) reference genome using ChAS 3.1.1.27 (Chromosome Analysis Suite) software.
Participants with at least two anomalies were enrolled from June 2015 - May 2018 at Thammasat University Hospital. Complete patient history and physical examinations were done; multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification analysis for 22q11.2 were performed with blood samples.
aCGH analysis using 8x60K array, microsatellite segregation analysis and QF-PCR for the informative marker on peripheral blood for all family, were performed. Clinical exsom analysis by NGS of the affected boy and the girl, were done
We present a 9 month old boy with facial dysmorphism, psychomotor delay and myoclonus in addition to hypomyelination findings on brain MRI. Dysthyroidism (elevated T3, low T4, fT4 levels and normal TSH) alongside poor weight gain, irritability and axial hypotonia were also found. Based on those findings a targeted SLC16A2 gene sequencing was performed
A female infant was delivered at 27+2 for pre-eclampsia, IUGR, and abnormal Dopplers. From birth, she had refractory thrombocytopenia necessitating almost-daily transfusions, as well as anemia, progressive hepatosplenomegaly, cholestasis, pulmonary hypertension, respiratory insufficiency, poor feeding, and punctate brain calcifications. Screening for TORCH infections and autoimmune thrombocytopenia was negative. She was treated twice for presumed culture-negative sepsis, with minimal clinical improvement. In the face of worsening multi-organ dysfunction, palliative measures were instituted and she died at 54 days.
 Here we report two young sisters, of consanguineous parents, presenting typical dysmorphic features and neuroimaging findings of BVSYS, plus polymicrogyria.

Patient 1 showed features of BVSYS at physical examination (strabismus, large and overhanging nasal tip, short philtrum, down-turned corners of the mouth, micrognathia, bilateral 2nd-3rd toe syndactyly Y-shaped) and a delayed psychomotor development. Brain MRI showed bilateral perisilvian polymicrogyria, thin corpus callosum, temporal and parietal atrophy, cyst of the cavum septum pellucidum and cavum vergae, enlargement of the third and lateral ventricles.

Patient 2 (patient 1’s sister) show similar clinical features at physical examination and brain MRI; she died at 1 year of age and authoptic investigations were not performed. Results (patient 1): Karyotype and array-CGH were normal; WES identified an homozygous frameshift variant c.1778_1779delAG in MED25. The variant leads to stop coding formation and results in a loss of function protein.
We describe a 2-year-old girl, referred because of global developmental delay. On examination we noted macrosomia, midface and scalp hemangiomas and a protruding tongue. She suffers of choking episodes. Speech is limited. She is the first child and a product of sperm donation. Macrosomia was noted on prenatal ultrasound. Neonatal hypoglycemia was not reported. MS-MLPA analysis (MRC Holland) was performed to look for epimutations in the imprinted 11p15 region associated with BWS (IC2 loss of methylation or IC1 gain of methylation). The results were confirmed with a second sample from the proband.
The sequencing of isolated, enriched genomic DNA was performed on NovaSeq 6000. Raw sequences in fastq format were mapped to hs37d5 reference. The following in silico prediction software programs were used to assist with interpretation of pathogenicity of detected variant: SIFT, MutationTaster, PolyPhen-2 as embedded in Alamut visual v 2.9.0. The presence of the variant in control populations was checked in 1000Genomes, the ExomeVariantServer, and the Exome Aggregation Consortium and gnomAD. Sanger sequencing was also performed.
aCGH was performed in the Macedonian patient with clinical signs of dysmorphia and developmental delay using the Affymetrix® CytoScanTM 750K Array (Applied Biosystems), that comprises 550 k non-polymorphic and 200 k SNP markers. The data was analysed using Chromosome Analysis Suite (ChAS) Software (v4.0).
Conventional chromosomal analysis (CA), array-CGH, quantitative PCR (qPCR) and Whole Trio Exome Sequencing (Trio-WES) were performed.
DNA was isolated from peripheral blood leukocytes from the patients. Exons of genes SALL1 TCL1 and TCL1B were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) under optimal conditions, using specific primers. The PCR products were subjected to RFLP analysis and were purified on the DNA Gel Out columns followed by direct sequencing method.
Description of a new case of BBS caused by two novel mutations in IFT172 gene. Results5 years-old boy, first child of healthy non consanguineous parents. He had retinosis pigmentosa, myopia, language delay, obesity (weight p>99 + 4.8SD), OFC p>99 (2.7SD), generalized brachydactyly, abnormal palmar creases, round face, short palpebral fissures, small teeth and one cafe au lait spot. Cardiac and renal anomalies were ruled out and the hearing was normal. ArrayCGH and molecular study of Prader-Willi were normal. Firstly, commom mutations associated with BBS were studied without positive result. NGS of genes associated with retinosis pigmentosa detected two variants probably damaging in IFT172 gene: c.2635G>A and c.4540-6C>G. The first was present in the mother and the second in the father, supporting their pathogenity.
Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed and c.1547C>T p.(Ala516Val) variant was identified in FGFR2 gene. In silico tools predict the change disrupts normal function of the FGFR2 protein. Additionally, parental testing confirmed de novo status of the variant.
Ten patients clinically diagnosed as LI and two consangineous carrier parents (their child with LI had died) having mutations in TGM1 gene were included in the study. All patients (including death child) were examined by an experienced dermatologist and clinical geneticist. Patient histories; including demographic, clinical and laboratory findings, were obtained from hospital records. TGM1 gene analysis was performed using a next generation sequencing platform (Illumina MiSeq)
In this study, we identified a novel splice site mutation in the GTPBP2 gene by Whole Exome Sequencing in two siblings with microcephaly and progressive generalized muscular atrophy associated with hypotrichosis.
A DNA sample of the index patient was analyzed by whole exome sequencing and array comparative genomic hybridization (array-CGH).
The family was revealed as part of a study of CNVs in a cohort of patients with intellectual disability and/or multiple congenital anomalies. According to the study protocol genetic tests included karyotyping, MLPA and arrayCGH. Array CGH analysis was performed using custom designed whole-genome oligonucleotide arrays (OGT, UK) with a median probe spacing of about 2.5 kb and median resolution of about 10 kb. CytoSure Interpret (OGT, UK) software was used for CNV detection.
Calls of homozygosity from 265 patients and 289 controls tested with CytoScan™ 750K, CytoScan™ HD or SNP 6.0™ arrays (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA) were analyzed using the Chromosome Analysis Suite - ChAS (version 4.0.0.385 (r28959) - Affymetrix®) (hg19) with filters set as a minimum of 500 markers and size of 1,500kb. For complementary investigation, to date, whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed for 4 individuals with increased ROH in the genome.
Whole exome sequencing was performed on the patient and sanger sequencing confirmed the variant comparing to her parents. We made a literature review of all reported SHORT syndrome cases online before February 2020, trying to illustrate the genotype-phenotype correlations.
The patient was clinically diagnosed at 3 years of age with SRS based on delayed prenatal and postnatal growth, relative macrocephaly, triangular face, prominent forehead, dental malposition, facial and limb asymmetry, bilateral finger V clinodactyly. The karyotype was normal 46,XX. In time, bone changes of osteoarthritis of the elbow joint, osteopenia, and hypothyroidism were added. At age of 23 years, the patient was molecularly tested by MLPA technique. We used SALSA MLPA kit ME030 BWS/RSS (MRC Holland, Amsterdam, The Netherlands). The MLPA result confirmed the hypomethylation of H19/IGF2 IG-DMR at 11p15.5. In this situation, the recurrence risks in sibs of the proband and in offspring of the proband are low.
We describe the case of a 14-year-old girl, born to healthy non-consanguineous parents. Pregnancy and neonatal period were uneventful. Postnatal growth with height at eighth centile and normal weight. She presented mild truncal hypotonia with psychomotor and expressive language delay. She attends to special school with major support and speech therapy. Clinical phenotype with narrow palpebral fissures, depressed nasal bridge, broad nose, long upper lip with flat philtrum, everted lower lip and prominent chin. Short and broad hands and feet with deep-set grooves in his palms and soles.
We performed a multi-country teamwork investigation including karyotype in Ecuador, FISH in Germany and WES in Japan
We present the case of a 1-y.o. male of a healthy non-consanguineous parents. In prenatal diagnosis IUGR, polydramnios and single umbilical artery was reported. He born late preterm, small for gestational age, and showed facial dysmorphisms and congenital malformations (esophageal atresia, cardiac defects, mild bone alterations, hypospadias). Transesophageal echocardiography detected persistency of left superior vena cava draining into the left atrium through an unroofed coronary sinus. Brain ultrasound showed dilated and asymmetric lateral ventricles. At present, cognitive and language abilities are adequate for age but he has mild gross motor delay. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood and analyzed by SNP-array (Cytoscan HD; Thermo Fisher Scientific).
Descriptive study of case series of children with VACTER-L/VACTER diagnosis (using the criteria and classification of the EUROCAT) at Hospital Pediátrico de la Misericordia (April 2009-December 2016) approved by institutional ethical committee. Statistical analysis done SPSS program.
We present a patient with CdLS2 features, including progressive microcephaly, severe psychomotor retardation, feeding difficulties, therapy resistant epilepsy, lack of expressive speech, nearsightedness, high arched palate and abnormal palmar creases. Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) analysis was performed using Agilent SureSelectXT library kit and Illumina sequencing technology. Sanger sequencing confirmed the presence of the pathogenic variant.
Tumour samples from 66 patients, staged pTa - T4 were collected. The epidemiological data related to age, gender, recurrence, smoking habits and occupational exposure were taken from patients’ questionarie. RT-PCR for mutation detection in EGFR (exones 18, 19, 20, 21) and PIK3CA (A3140T, A3140G, C3139T) SensiScreen® as well as SNaPshot multiplex assay for activating FGFR3 mutations and MLPA for CDKN2A CNVs were performed.
Tumor tissue of 52 BC female patients was obtained during surgery. Patients (mean age 53.05 ± 1.86) subdivided depending of age: Group 1 (25-44 years), Group 2 (45-60 years), Group 3 (61-85 years). Obtained tumor was tested for BRCA1 and RUNX3 gene methylation status. Tumor samples saved using DNA/RNA Shield. DNA extracted with Quick-DNA Miniprep Plus Kit. Bisulfide conversion was done by dint of EZ DNA Methylation-Gold Kit. Converted DNA with methyl-specific primers was used for PCR analysis.
Using a multiplex PCR SNaPShot analysis we genotyped rs1042522 and rs2279744 in 131 women with CIN or CCa and 110 cytologicaly negative women.
We used next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based panel assay and molecular barcoding technology to analyze variants in 197 genes. We examined a breast cancer patient after surgery and frequently monitoring of ctDNA.
Our study included 160 CRC pateints, mean age 65,39±8.55 years. Among them, there were 98 men (61.3%) and 62 (38.8%) women. PPARG Pro12Ala genotypes were detected by PCR-RFLPs while UCP2+3474 ins/del polymorphism was detected by PCR. all patients, data about tumor location, histologic differentiation, preoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen level, the presence of lymph node metastases, distant metastases and stage of the disease were recorded.
We examined 10 patients with the diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme treated in the neurosurgical department and have observed them within 12 months by present. DNA was extracted from freshly frozen tumor tissue. Detection of the MGMT gene hypermethylation was carried out with methyl-specific real time PCR
We report BRCA1 and BRCA2 analysis results of the Hospital of Lithuanian University of Health Sciences Kauno Klinikos from year 2015 till 2019. Analysis was performed for patients who were at increased risk of having BRCA1/2 genes pathogenic variants according to the local laws. Analysis was performed in two steps: firstly, it was analyzed with pyrosequencing kit for 6 common variants. Later, If needed, analysis on Sanger sequencing or Next generation sequencing for coding genes regions was continued.
HGS was diagnosed in 3 patients aged 4.5 to 8 years. Classic and modern technologies were used.
Study was made in Georgian population. Inclusion criteria was the morphologically diagnosed mCRC. DNA was extracted from 111 patients FFPE Tissue. KRAS (exon 2,3,4), NRAS (exon 2,3,4) and BRAF (exon15) were amplified. For mutations detection Sanger Sequencing method has been used.
We aimed to investigate the methylation profiles of selected tumor suppressor genes to find out whether aberrant methylation can be significantly correlated with tumor stage and/or grade. Tumor DNA from carefully selected 44 patients diagnosed with NMIBC and MIBC was analyzed. Methylation profiles were examined by MS-MLPA technique. The capillary electrophoresis method provided data for calculating the percentage of methylation of particular genes. A value above 15% was considered as a positive result.
We performed a retrospective review of patients with MM referred to Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Varna, Bulgaria between 2017 and 2019. Bone marrow (BM) samples of 65 patients with MM at different stages of the disease were evaluated for cytogenetic analyses and 19 of them for interphase fluorescent in situ hybridization (iFISH). Chromosomes were classified according to the International System for Human Cytogenetic Nomenclature 2016 (ISCN 2016). FISH was performed on BM samples and 200 interphase nuclei were evaluated per sample. The iFISH was performed using commercially available probes (Kreatech TM FISH probes) for the detection of two oncohaematological markers: deletions of 17p13 (TP53) and rearrangements involving immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) region on 14q32 chromosome
Tissue samples were collected from 25 ESCC-affected patients immediately after Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy in Oncology Center. Whole transcriptome sequencing was performed regarding the TruSeq RNA Protocol. STAR software and DESeq2 package have been used for mapping and defining differentially expressed genes.
Digested DNA obtained from paired tumor/normal samples was ligated to adapters with Unique Molecular Identifiers. Primers specific to young RE were used to selectively amplify sequences flanking RE insertions in the genome. These sequences were used to identify new insertions by custom pipeline. To test method sensitivity, we prepared a mixture of cells from 4 healthy donors, with different cell concentrations.
Cytogenomic microarray testing using a CGH array (135K [hg18], Roche NimbleGen) was performed to evaluate copy number variations (CNVs). We employed metaphase FISH analyses using selected BAC clones to identify the chromosomal rearrangements related to the CNVs.
aCGH analysis was performed in a child with clinical signs of dysmorphia and severe hypotonia using the Affymetrix® CytoScanTM 750K Array (Applied Biosystems). Each array was consisted of 200 k SNP and 550 k non-polymorphic markers. The data was analysed and interpreted using Chromosome Analysis Suite (ChAS) Software (v4.0).
We used our data of the SCE methodology as it is a simple, sensitive and rapid detection technique used to evaluate chromosomal fragility. Increased SCEs mean increased unspecific damage to the DNA molecule, which was caused by various mutants in lymphocyte cultures.
Blood samples of three healthy donors were included in the study. Tested substances were added 24 hours after culture were started and following concentration were examined: thimerosal (1 µg/ml and 0.5 µg/ml), paracetamol 20 µg/ml, thimerosal with paracetamol (0,5 µg/ml/20 µg/ml and 0.5 µg/ml/ 20 µg/ml). Cultivations were lasted for 72 hours, and analysys of structural chromosomes aberations was performed.
Initially, sexual markers were analysed by capillary electrophoresis followed by conventional cytogenetic analysis. 200 nuclei were analysed by FISH with a probe for the SRY gene and another for the X chromosome centromere for exact determination of the % of each line.
We report the case of a teenager who suffered a miscarriage in the second trimester (19 weeks). She was referred to our medical genetics department for further testing due to fetal malformation of the central nervous system, meningocele diagnosed by ultrasound. We performed karyotype analysis of the product of conception and analysed 70 cells
We conducted a retrospective study over one year on our tertiary neonatal unit to assess the indications, consent process, diagnostic yield and results delivery for microarray testing.
To assess the success rate and agreement, 324 stored DNA samples from (suspected) CF patients, heterozygous carriers and healthy subjects were tested at 3 external sites. The DNA was amplified with the OneAmp kit and consecutively tested with the INNO-LiPA® CFTRiage strips and, where applicable with the INNO-LiPA® CFTR confirmatory strips. For reproducibility testing, a panel of 6 DNA samples was tested at three sites (2 external, and 1 in-house), by different persons, on different days, on different instruments, and in-house on 3 different lots of the INNO-LiPA CFTRiage.
The proband is a 3-month-old boy, born from consanguineous union. He presented with intermittent jaundice from 15 days after birth, with elevated transaminase and alpha-fetoprotein serum levels, very high serum bile acid concentration, and normal serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) activity. An expanded panel-based NGS was performed on genomic DNA from the proband, including 29 genes implicated in PFIC, and additional 224 other genes for cholestasis
Set of 48 DNA libraries was prepared using Swift 2S Turbo DNA Library Kit (Swift Bioscience) and NimbleGen SeqCap Hybridization reagents and probes (Roche). Sequencing was performed on NextSeq 500 and BGISEQ-500 platforms. Oligonucleotides for library convertion and BGISEQ-500 sequencing were ordered from Microsynth (Switzerland). Demultiplexing of BGISEQ-500 data was performed using custom tool. FastQC, aligning and coverage analysis were performed using FASTQC, BWA MEM and Mosdepth tools. Variant calling was performed using in-house pipeline for clinical variant interpretation based on ACMG criteria.
After IRB approval, children between 1 and 12 years old, submitted to general anesthesia for endoscopic procedures, were recruited. Emergence delirium was considered as Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium Scale score ≥ 10. DNA from blood lymphocytes were extracted by QIAamp DNA BloodMidi Kit (QIAGEN®). The genomic array was performed using iScan (Illumina®) with HumanCytoSNP850K and Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChips. Arrays data were treated and analyzed using Bluefuse®, GenomeStudio®, and specific packages in R environment.
Here we present the data analyses of four genomes from patients with muscular dystrophies (without mutations using gene panel or exome sequencing) by applying the software GensearchNGS (PhenoSystems). We used integrated variant calling, CNV tools and anomaly scans together with external tools (e.g. cnMops, Alamut, CADD) to analyze and validate the patient’s data (see table).
Swabs and blood samples were collected from 5 healthy and 3 BRCA PVs carriers. Buccal swabs were obtained using FLOQ Swab (COPAN, Brescia, Italy) placed with NAO basket. Both sample types were extracted using the QIAmp DNA Mini kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). NGS Devyser BRCA kit (Devyser, Hägersten, Sweden) was used for the BRCA amplification. Sequencing was performed on MiSeq platform (Illumina, CA, US). Quality parameters were evaluated from sequencing data. NGS data were analyzed by Amplicon Suite (SmartSeq, Novara, Italy).
We actively searched for pathogenic variants in autosomal recessive conditions, not the primary objective of analysis, in 100 whole exomes performed for diagnostic purposes in a private laboratory in Brazil. Common variants (e.g., frequency >1%) in common recessive conditions (HFE, SERPINE1, BTD) were excluded from our analysis. We reviewed the methodology of three commercial tests for carrier status and assessed whether variants found in our cohort were covered by these commercial kits
We present three axonal neuropathy families and three simplex individuals carrying the MME c.467delC variant. Probands underwent Next-Generation-Sequencing (NGS); most relatives were Sanger sequenced.
gDNA was obtained by whole-blood column extraction; HRMA performed by “PrecisionMelt Software” (Bio-Rad). MLPA performed with SALSA Probemix P091-D2_CFTR (MRC-Holland). NGS performed on MiSeq (Illumina) using NimbleGen SeqCap EZ_CysFib kit, mean coverage 70x. Raw data processed with bwa, GenomeAnalysisToolKit, annotated by dbNSFP (SnpEff, SnpSift), variants filtered by SNVViewer
Nine whole blood samples collected in 1999, 2001 and 2012, all having low (between 100 μL to 200 μL) blood volumes, were used in this study. DNA extraction was performed using three different DNA extraction kits, according to their respective instructions.
Functional and immunologic Fbg levels were determined with Clauss FibR (Stago) and NOR-Partigen Fibrinogen (Siemens), respectively. A custom Nonacus v1.2.1 Cell 3TM Target that includes the FGA, FGB and FGG genes was performed on a MiSeq instrument (Ilumina). All variants were confirmed by Sanger sequencing using an Applied Biosystems 3500.
We determined only very rare synonymous, splice region and intron variants in patients in which WES was performed. We concentrated on those variants which showed significant overlap with the given patient phenotype. We studied the predicted effect of such variants on splicing using reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR).
We used both real and simulated data to assess the performances of various GWAS approaches. First, we considered SNPs derived from the core genome, and unitigs obtained by compacting the de Bruijn graph. Second, we compared alternative ad hoc algorithms for deriving pairwise genetic relatedness between strains. Third, we assessed a range of logistic and linear mixed models (LMM) with various random effect. And fourth, we assessed solutions to account for the observed extensive LD
We used the NIST-GIAB pilot sample NA12878/HG001 WGS provided by the PrecisionFDA, and WES sequences with PE75 at >50X obtained on a HiSeq4000 (Illumina) in our laboratory, both used as internal references. Variants were called with the HaplotypeCaller following the Genome Analysis Toolkit Best Practices workflow recommendations (GATK v3.8 and v4.1.4). A high confidence set of variants accounting for read depth, and variant calling and mapping quality was compared against the GIAB gold standard.
An aiVCE was developed for implementing the new recommendations and removing their computational and technical challenges. As no gold standard dataset with category level evidence exists for classified CNVs, to evaluate the aiVCE we benchmark against the dataset which was used for the recommendations creation where each CNV was evaluated by two different clinical labs.
Here, we propose an algorithm — “CNV laundering” — for CNV/pathway prioritization in brain disorders. Algorithm’s stages are (1) CNV data is obtained and checked for recurrence (recurrent CNVs excluded); (2) ontology and expression of CNV genes obtained (genes not expressed in the brain excluded); (3) gene-gene interactions are retrieved; (4) candidate pathways obtained by analyzing the set of interacting genes; (5) pathway prioritization and clusterization using a novel prioritization criterion (number of CNV genes in a pathway/total number of pathway genes). Using the algorithm and Affymetrix CytoScan HD microarray, we analyzed 191 genomes of children with neurodevelopmental disorders and congenital abnormalities (patient inclusion criteria: absence of CNVs larger than 500 kbp).
We propose to use docker for Windows with WSL 2 to integrate bio-informatics tools into existing analysis tools like GensearchNGS with a minimal overhead. WSL 2 greatly reduces the I/O overhead previous versions of Docker or approaches likes emulation. We show
In a two years period, we collected 669 IRD cases studied by clinical exome sequencing and determined their diagnostic status. We identified 152 VUS in 129 unsolved cases, and studied their features in the context of the same cohort causal variants (N=379 cases)
We created artificial TNGS data, by downscaling WES data from the reference sample NA12878 to simulate an in-house TNGS custom designed gene panel (containing less than 100 genes), targeting clinical significant germline variants. Performed variant calling using DeepVariant’s WES model and GATK’s Best Practices germline variant calling pipeline (HaplotypeCaller, HC), comparing both results to the high confidence calls of the NA12878.
The 27 loci from 20 ADME genes were genotyped in the Croatian study sample consisted of 429 participants. Allele frequencies were combined with published data on the Croatian population (weighted frequencies according to sample sizes). The Croatian allele frequencies were compared with the European population average data taken from the gnomAD database (selection criteria: control cases only and non-Finnish).
Current status and a series of procedures for genomic profiling test were reviewed by specialists of Psyco-oncology and supportive care division. And Investigate an interview with medical stuff involved in genomic profiling test to clarify individual problem.
Real-time PCR genotyping and AAT blood concentration measurement by nephelometry were performed from the dry blood spots (DBS) samples of approx. 5000 newborns.
For this study, we have used data from the National Registry of Congenital Anomalies of the Czech Republic. We analyzed the incidence of anencephaly in births and in prenatally diagnosed cases in the 1964-2016 period. We also evaluated maternal age in these cases. The statistical analysis was performed by Poisson regression and Fisher’s exact test
A cross-sectional study was conducted among senior healthcare students at the main Libyan Universities. Students from faculties of Medical, Dental, Pharmacy and Medical Technology who were about to graduate at the end of the 2020/2021 academic year completed a structured and self-administered online questionnaire distributed in social media University pages and via emails. The questionnaire included information about personal and general health, attitudes towards biomedical research and donation and awareness of biobanks.
All patients had family history of cancer and were included in the study only if they have family history of breast or ovarian cancer, male breast cancer or triple negative tumours. PCR was performed using specific primer pairs spanning BRCA1 exon 11 followed by Sanger sequencing. Genetic analysis was done using Sequencher®5.1.
We collected phenotype and genotype data from 3279 patients with biallelic CFTR mutations from PubMed. The penetrance (P) of the 5T variant was calculated by comparing its allele count (AC) to the AC of the loss-of-function (LOF) variants in the European non-Finnish patient population and in the gnomAD as P=(AC5T/ACLOF)patient/(AC5T/ACLOF)gnomAD, tested by Fisher’s exact test.
In our work, we assessed the association of polymorphic variants of the IL1β-31T>C, -511C>T, IL4 -589C>T and IL6 -174G>C genes with high-risk HPV infection in women, ages 30 years and older (101 women infected with HPV with viral load more than 4lg and 93 women without HPV). Polymorphic variants detected by allele-specific PCR.
Four markers (rs2020917, rs4818, rs4680, rs9332377) have been typed in 275 North African populations using TaqMan technology. Haplotypes have been phased. Linkage disequilibrium (LD), Fst distance matrix and Principal Component Analysis (PCA), were performed. For comparative analyses, data from the 59 Kidd Lab populations and the 1000 Genome Project, were used.
CFPR-RF 2018 included data of 3142 CF patients while 2011 - 1015 patients.
Under the IV screening of the international program "HAPIEE" and the WHO program "MONICA-psychosocial" in 2003-2005 a representative sample of the population aged 45-64 years (n=781 of men) was surveyed. All study participants filled out the depression scale proposed by WHO MONICA-psychosocial program. The genotyping of the DRD2/ANKK1 Taq1A gene polymorphism was done in frame of the budgetary issue # АААА-А17-117112850280-2.
We reviewed all the molecular studies received in our laboratory during the year 2019, grouping them by requesting specialty, type of study and result, determining the index of relevance and/or accuracy, and the diagnostic yield of each one.
A cross-sectional study was conducted involving 134 Malay women aged between 20 to 50 years. Hair samples were collected from occipital region of the scalp. Concentrations of four HMs were quantified using Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS). Degree of DNA damage was detected using Alkaline-Comet assay. Hundred cells were randomly selected and scored using online software for evaluating four comet assay parameters. Participant’s daily energy, macro and micro nutrient intake were extracted from a food frequency questionnaire.
From the largest Val30Met TTR-FAP database worldwide we carried out an extensive family-based haplotype study, in 45 families from two disease clusters (Northern Coast and Inland).
The study consisted of 100 Libyan individuals between the ages of 25 and 65 years including 50 cases and 50 controls. DNA was extracted from buccal swabs and paper points for subgingival pathogen samples. IL 17 (A&F) genotyping was performed by PCR followed by Sanger sequencing. Specific 16S rRNA primers for each pathogen were applied in a multiplex PCR reaction and visualized by agarose gel electrophoresis for detection of subgingival pathogens.
The study included 170 patients with IS treated with thrombolytic therapy. Patients’ convalescence was determined using the Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) after 3 months from IS onset, where the good outcome has been defined with scores 0-1 and unfavorable with scores 2-6. Genotypisation was performed using Real-Time PCR (rs243866, rs243865, rs243864) and PCR-RFLP (rs2285053) methods. Haplotype analysis was performed by Haploview software
A blood sample was collected from 1057 healthy subjects. DNA extraction was performed using the PrepFilerTM kit. Polymorphisms were amplified in a multiplex PCR, and a SNaPshot minisequencing reaction followed by analysis on an ABI PRISM 310. Allelic frequencies and Hardy-Weinberg test (EHW) were obtained by Arlequin v 3.5.
We included 109 RA patients. MTX efficacy was estimated using the changes in Disease activity score (DAS28) after 6 months of MTX monotherapy, according to EULAR response criteria. Adverse effects (AE) were collected during the follow-up period. Bone erosion appearance was estimated after 6 months of treatment. Genotyping for MMP-2 gene polymorphisms (rs243866, rs243865, rs2285053) was performed using the Real Time or PCR-RFLP methods. Haplotype analysis was performed using the Haploview software.
Samples were collected from 498 volunteers in Ribeirão Preto, SP. Pigmentation phenotypes and melanin index measurements (spectrophotometry) were also collected. Genotype data was obtained using a) Infinium Multi-Ethnic Global-8 (MEGA) Kit Array (Illumina) and b) target sequencing (HaloPlex Target Enrichment System For Illumina Sequencing, Agilent Technologies), followed by alignment to hg19/GRCh37 reference genome and genotyping by Genome Analysis Tool Kit (GATK) HaplotypeCaller. Association analysis were performed using logistic regression adjusting to ancestry composition and Fisher Exact test.
We analyzed Axiom Genome-Wide CEU1 and Axiom Genome-Wide PanAFR array data from patients with sepsis-associated ARDS: 269 Spanish from GEN-SEP study and 137 African Americans. Estimates of the mtDNA levels were obtained from the intensities of selected probes, with 100% identity with mtDNA and with the largest number of mismatches with the nuclear sequences. Values were normalized across the individual-probe intensities. Logistic regression was used for association with 28-day mortality and ICU mortality in Spanish and African Americans, respectively.
We used least squares regression to fit the model log(incidence) ~ (n-1)log(age) in published estimates of age-specific incidence of neurological diseases to estimate n, the average number of steps required for disease onset.
A subcohort of 1,160 subjects were randomly selected from the Italian Moli-sani cohort (2005-2010, ≥35years). Methylation levels at 17 CpG sites of NMU regions 76 (promoter) and 32 (intronic) were analysed using pyrosequencing. Principal factor analysis (PFA) was performed to identify the main methylation patterns. Multivariable regressions (age, sex, smoking, alcohol and vegetables consumption as covariates) were performed to estimate the associations between resulting factors and metabolic phenotypes (BMI, waist, blood pressure, glucose, lipids and apolipoproteins A and B). False discovery rate (FDR) was used to correct for multiple comparisons. Mediation analyses were performed using a composite index of circulating inflammation based on hsCRP, granuocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio, platelet and white blood cell count (INFLA-score
A total of 280 women were enrolled in this case-control study. The patient group consisted of 150 women identified as RSA patients, and the controls were 130 women with at least two successful pregnancies and without history of abortions. All individuals were genotyped for the PON-1 polymorphisms by PCR-RFLP method.
Study included 149 surgical patients with secondary peritonitis who underwent emergency laparotomy, surgical source control, antibiotic therapy and intensive care support. We evaluated the following outcomes: septic shock, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS), mechanical ventilation and mortality. Genotyping was performed using Real-time PCR (rs2297518) or PCR-RFLP method (T786C, 4b/4a, G894T). ENOS gene haplotypes were evaluated using the Haploview 4.2 software.
We used data from two European cohorts; the Greek TEENAGE study (data used for n=654) and the French STANISLAS Family Study-SFS (data used for n=509). We examined the potential effect of the rs13107325 polymorphism on the z-scores (zBMI) and logBMI of the teenagers. Analyses adjusted for age and gender, were conducted via linear regression modelling in SPSS, for the TEENAGE cohort. Given that some of the teenagers of the STANISLAS cohort could belong to the same family, we tested for potential association using the R statistical software, the GWAF and kinship2 packages, to correct for familial resemblance.
A total of 600 current smokers having at least one quitting attempt during the 2-year follow-up were recruited. Fifteen SNPs in seven candidate genes (CHRNA3, CHRNA5, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, 5HT2A, 5HT3A, 5HT3B) were genotyped. Logistic regression and Cox proportional hazard models were used to explore the association between the genetic variants and smoking relapse as well as their association over time.
Data was obtained as part of the Developing Human Connectome Project. Our full, mixed-ancestral cohort comprised 411 term-born infants with accompanying MRI and genetic data (European subsample 202). Infant DNA was genotyped for SNPs genome-wide and standard quality control and imputation were performed. MRI images were acquired at term equivalent age. Volume estimates for the caudate, putamen, pallidum and hippocampus were extracted using a neonatal atlas. We used a linear regression model with an additive model of association for each genetic variant, including gestational age at birth, postmenstrual age at scan, intracranial volume, gender and ancestry principal components as covariates. The main analysis was with a European cohort (four imaging phenotypes, corrected p-value, p < 0.0125). Significant results were replicated in the full mixed-ancestral cohort.
DNA samples from 84 participants were included to the current study. SNPs were genotyped on a SNP array using qualitative real-time PCR on a Life Technologies Quantstudio 12K Real Time PCR system using the cycle relative threshold (Crt) method. 11 SNPs from 8 genes of the vitamin D metabolic pathway were subsequently analyzed.
79 samples had a complete data set of all questionnaires, two blood samplings at entry and exit of the study, and informed consent. DNA was extracted and processed on Illumina´s GlobalScreeningArray 24v2-0-MD and HumanMethylationEPIC array.
We performed RNA-Seq on 25 plasma samples from patients with primary cutaneous melanoma. We investigated the differential expression of miRNAs in stages I-III at the time of diagnosis. Functional analysis of the involved molecular pathways was also performed.
We obtained miRNAs linked with preeclampsia from the manually curated pregnancy pathology database PregMiR was developed us early (https://pregmir.ott.ru/). miRNA were included in the analysis only if their differential expression between samples with PE and normal samples was significant (adjusted p< 0.05)
Blood samples from thirty volunteers vaccinated with YF17DD were collected 0, 4, 7 and 10 after immunization (DAI). RT-qPCR assay was carried out to quantify expression of CLEC5A, IFNG, IL6, RNASEL, IRF7, IRF9, STAT2 and OAS1. SNP Allelic discriminations was carried using TaqMan assays. Blood cell were stimulated with the envelope viral protein and phenotyped by flow cytometry.
The olive (Olea europae, Genome ID:10724) genome sequence in the Pubmed genome database was aligned with the human genome using website NucleotidBlast. The variations of the matching sequences with nearest restriction sites were investigated in online databases such as Pubmed, PolyPhen-2, Exac.browser.
Targeted NGS, with a panel of 174 gene related to cardiologic phenotype (TruSightCardio Illumina) was used. The panel includes the KCNQ1, KCNH2, SCN5A, ANK2, KCNE1, KCNE2, KCNJ2, CACNA1C, CAV3, SCN4B, AKAP9, SNTA1, KCNJ5, CALM1 genes. Results. An eutrophic newborn male, with a 41-42 weeks gestational period, with normal evolution of neonatal jaundice, with a normal level of creatine kinase, without hypotonia was examined. During labor, a fracture of clavicula and lesion of the eye have been reported. While being monitored, a unique episode of bradycardia was observed and ECG was suggestive for long-QT syndrome. The NGS result did not indicate any genetic cause to explain patient’s phenotype, but did report, as incidental finding in RYR1, with a heterozygote, probably pathogenic, NM_000540.2:c.2390G>A, and VUS NM_000540.2:c.10648C>T. Pathogenic variants in RYR1 gene were associated with high clinical variability and multiple phenotypes: Susceptibility to Malignant Hyperthermia (OMIM 145600), AD; Central core disease, OMIM 117000, AD, AR; KingDenborough Syndrome (OMIM 145600), AD; Minicore myopathy with external ophthalmoplegia, (OMIM 255320), AR; Congenital neuromuscular disease with uniform fiber type 1 (OMIM 117000) AD, AR. Attributing clinical significance for the variants was very difficult due to lack of phenotype details and age of patient. Thus, susceptibility for Malign Hyperthermia, was reported as main possible association.
12 patients, aged 0 to 17 years old, with Noonan syndrome were diagnosed at the Timisoara Centre for Genomic Medicine. The molecular testing was performed on MiSeq platform (Illumina) using TruSight Cardio Sequencing Panel. As expected, the most commonly involved genes we found were: PTPN11 (c.1504T>G, c.923A>G, c.922A>G, c.236A>G, c.188A>G, c.767A>G) and SOS1 (c.512T>C, c.1322G>A, c.1277A>G, c.842G>T).
For the pilot study, a questionnaire was developed containing questions for evaluating the main approach to patient counseling. The survey was attended by 30 geneticists.
We looked at the patient visited to outpatient with short statue as main complaint from 2013 to 2019. Retrospective data on age at diagnosis, reason for karyotype analysis and presenting clinical features was collected from the medical records.
Retrospective data from medical records and clinical questionnaires with patients followed in a reference center in Brazil Results 24 patients (20 females and four males) were enrolled. Media age of symptoms onset was 22 years (range: 12-47 years). All patients reported recurrent porphyria related symptoms, such as pain, neurological and/or psychiatric disorders, nevertheless other systemic complications as hypertension and chronic kidney disease were seen in 10 patients. The median frequency of attacks in the last year was 3 times, and the duration of every attack was 8 days. Analgesic dependency to opioid was seen in 12 patients. Heme therapy was initiated in all patients with remission of the symptoms in most of the patients for more than 6 months in its first use.
Methodologically different approaches to structure of beneficence and autonomy are compared to describe model of current approaches to biobank science among professionals in Russia. Due to different research situations there are at least several types of informed consent: broad informed consent, dynamic informed consent and project specified informed consent as models for patient reflective approaches to biobank biomedical researches. The results of study of informed consent for biobanks among Russian researches is analyzed in the perspective of connection between science value and solidarity as social beneficence (understood as biological information), which must dominates over autonomy.
Semi-structured interviews, based on prevalent principles in medical ethics, have been conducted among 8 experts involved in expanding the scope of clinical genetics at the Erasmus Medical Center, including clinical geneticists, lab technicians, and bio-informaticians.
the content analysis method was used to analyze publications in the Russian media.
Analysis and comparison of the Nuffield Council’s report, Genome Editing and Human Reproduction“ (2018) and the German Ethics Council’s opinion, Intervening in the Human Germline“ (2019).
Searched the world wide web (WWW) for patient education materials (PEM) on gene therapy, gene editing and curative genetic therapies for SCD. News media articles, magazines, personal stories and scientific publications were excluded. A secondary search was conducted by a medical librarian to identify additional educational materials. PEM quality was evaluated using the United States Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) Patient Education Materials Assessment Tool for Print or Audiovisual materials (PEMAT-P; PEMAT-AV). The readability of PEM was assessed utilizing the Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level (FKGL) and the Simple Measure of Gobbledygook (SMOG). Scientific Accuracy Score (SAS) was assessed by two reviewers and a gene therapy clinical expert. The assessment of the scientific accuracy included an evaluation of the risks and benefits.
Overexpression and disruption of Lnc13 were performed in the human pancreatic β-cell line EndoC-βH1 using allele-specific overexpression vectors and CRISPR-Cas9 mediated deletion. Polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (PIC) was used to mimic a virus-related inflammatory response. RNA antisense purification (RAP) and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays were implemented to characterize the binding partners of Lnc13. In vitro experiments were further corroborated with expression analysis of human pancreatic islets
We combined mouse genetics with molecular high-throughput genomic technologies on ex vivo and in vitro human cells to discover the molecular nature of CRC-causing Wnt signaling machinery.
Exome sequencing in 147 selected MA patients (discovery cohort and two validation cohorts).
As part of the 100,000 Genomes project (pilot and main study), 1673 recruited cases were analysed. WGS analysis consisted of evaluation of potentially disease-causing variation, based on the ACMG evidence framework and application of suitable curated virtual panel(s) from PanelApp (https://panelapp.genomicsengland.co.uk/), resolving 54% (903/1673) of cases. In an additional 17% (291/1673) of cases, variants identified outside of this filtering strategy included non-coding, structural and those that were otherwise filtered out or outside the gene panel.

Examples included: 1) Strength of genetic evidence: e.g. curation and identification of known disease alleles in ABCA4 (high frequency in control populations and those escaping standard in silico assessment) encompassed an additional 5% of total diagnoses. 2) Strength of phenotypic evidence: e.g. NR2E3 biallelic variants and pathognomonic clinical presentation of Enhanced S-cone syndrome enabled identification of poorly annotated pathogenic variants in this gene.
We generated random forest (RF) models individually for each AA substitution to differentiate pathogenic nsSNVs in the Human Gene Mutation Database (HGMD) and common nsSNVs in dbSNP. We named a set of our models “Individual Meta RF (InMeRF)”
We calculated proportions of families with IRD attributable to variants in each gene in the whole cohort, a cohort <18 years, and a “current” cohort (patients seen in last two years). Additionally, we explored correlation between numbers of families and gene transcript length.
We performed rare variant association analysis of 840 LVNC cases and 125,748 gnomAD population controls, and compared results to similar analyses on dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM).
We investigated genome-wide data of 4,359 traits of 361,194 UKB participants. Using 1KG data, we explored the allele frequency differences and linkage disequilibrium (LD) structure across worldwide populations. ENCODE data were used to identify regulatory elements and evaluate the tagging properties of significant variants.
From regional databases, all pregnancies in Central Denmark Region were identified between January 1st, 2008, and December 31, 2018. Pregnancy data was linked to genetic outcome data and fetuses with 22q11.2 aberrations (hg19 chr22:18.8mio-23.7mio) were identified and compared to a reference group.
Three subjects representing each type of NLRP3-related autoinflammatory disorder: CINCA (chronic infantile, neurological, cutaneous, and articular) syndrome; MWS (Muckle-Wells syndrome); and DFNA34, who underwent CI for auditory rehabilitation, were recruited. Phenotypes as well as genotypes were reviewed in the subjects and audiologic performances before/after CI over time were evaluated.
An interdisciplinary team, including medicine, social work, health communication, psychology, occupational science, and nursing developed and conducted IRB-approved, in-depth interviews with 38 AYA individuals with LFS. Most participants were female (n=26) and white (n=31). Interviews were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using modified grounded theory analysis.
Three samples of HNSCC were obtained after surgical resection. They were cultured in DMEM with 10% FBS and 1% AB/AM, at 37°C and 5% CO2. Approximately 2x106 cells were subjected to hypoxia (2% O2) for 12 hours at 37°C using hypoxia chamber. Cells were immunophenotyped by flow cytometry using CD44/CD133/ALDH1 markers immediately after hypoxia and after 45 days of cultivation. The presence of CSC was confirmed by invasion, migration and tumor sphere formation assays. ALDH1, CD44 and CD133 gene expressions were determined by qRT-PCR. Normoxic cells were used as control.
Case 1 is a 8-year-old female with neuromotor retardation and spasticity. Parents were consanguineous having 3 affected children. She had microphthalmia, nystagmus, bilateral optic atrophy, operated congenital cataracts and corpus callosum hypoplasia. Case 2 is a six-month old male with microcephaly, microphthalmia, congenital cataracts, diffuse cerebral atrophy and cryptorchidism. Case 3 is a 21-month-old female having neuromotor retardation, hypotonia and epilepsy. She had microphthalmia, congenital cataracts, cerebral atrophy and corpus callosum hypoplasia
Using data from the 1000 Genomes Project spanning populations of all continents, we performed a global analysis of haplotypes and haplotype blocks containing genes that are associated with increased cholelithiasis risk. Restriction of attention to biallelic SNPs with MAFs above 3-5% facilitates the recognition, analysis and interpretation of haplotype blocks and haplotype classes.
We present the case of a five months Colombian patient, who presented focal symptomatic refractory epilepsy, hypotonia and bilateral cataracts. Metabolic studies showed normal or non-conclusive results. By the time when the metabolomic test was considered, the clinical condition was critical, with severe hypotonia, refractory seizures, and sepsis, and finally, the patient dies. Analysis by non-targeted metabolomics in plasma was performed (Metabolon Inc.) This test identifies molecules between 50-1,500 Daltons (Da). The identification is performed using four different types of high-performance Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography (UPLC) instruments paired with Mass Spectrometry (UPLC/MS). The identification of each molecule is confirmed against a proprietary chemical library consisting of accurate molecular weight/mass plus information on any adductation, in source fragmentation, and/or polymerization, retention time/index on the chromatography columns, and mass spectral fragmentation patterns.
Clinical, radiological and pedigree information was noted from 84 patients with RR. Whole exome sequencing was performed with application of Ingenuity Variant Analysis tool and ACMG 2015 criteria for the identification of causal variants.
Mutations analysis of SLC29A3 gene, was performed, using direct Sanger sequencing, for three unrelated Tunisian family with phenotypic overlap, associating features of RDD and H syndrome.
We interviewed 77 traditional and unconventional actors in human genetics - of which 28 during lockdown - to unravel, characterise and structure the emerging transition. We applied iterative coding to the interview transcripts. Inductive reasoning (grounded theory) revealed transition points, elements of culture, and emerging (adjacent) regime changes as major drivers for the (future) human genetics regime.
Patients attending two Primary Care Clinics in Malaysia between July to December 2019 were recruited to the study. Consented patients were required to fill in socio-demographic and family history questionnaires, and patients’ lipid profile were obtained from their clinical notes. Patients’ risk of FH were calculated using Simon Broome(SB), Dutch Lipid Clinic Criteria(DLCC) and FAMCAT criteria. Patients with high risk of FH(SB possible and definite, DLCC≥6, and FAMCAT> 1 in 200) were then referred to the Specialist Lipid Clinic for confirmation through genetic testing.
5 PK patients belonging to a cohort of 3 families from central Tunisia were sequenced for PMVK and MVK genes by the Sanger technique.
RT-PCR and western blot analysis were used to detect the expression of miR-552 and PTEN. The impact of miR-552 on ovarian cancer proliferation and metastasis was investigated in vitro. The prognostic value of miR-552 was evaluated using the online bioinformatics tool Kaplan-Meier plotter.
In total, 80 cases of tumor tissues and their corresponding adjacent noncancerous tissues were obtained from ovarian cancer patients in Cao county people’s hospital from 2012 to 2017, detailed clinicopathological features of the patients is described in online Additional file 1: Table S1. Fifteen cases of tumor tissues and their metastases tissues were obtained from ovarian cancer patients in Cao county people’s hospital from 2013 to 2016. Fifteen cases of tumor tissues and their recurrence tumor tissues were obtained from ovarian cancer patients in Cao county people’s hospital from October 2014 to March 2016. Human ovarian cancer and adjacent normal tissues were immediately snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at − 80 °C. All of the patients provided signed informed consent. The medical ethics committee of Cao county people’s hospital approved the retrieval method for cancer specimens.
HO8910 and HGSOC cells were purchased from Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. The ovarian cancer cells were cultured in RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS; Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The cultures were dissociated with 0.5% trypsin and transferred to new six-well plates biweekly. The lenti-vector expressing miR-552 sponge or miR-552 mimic and their control virus were purchased from Shanghai GenePharma (Shanghai, China). LV3-has-miR-552 mimics (5′- AACAGGTGACTGGTTAGACAA − 3′) can mimic high levels of endogenous mature miR-552 in cells. The miR-552 sequence +loop+ reverse complementation (incomplete complementation) was inserted into the vector to express shRNA, which was then cut into mature miR-552. LV3-has-miR-552 sponge (5′- TTGTCTAACCAGTCACCTGTT − 3′) is that the complete reverse complementary sequence (inhibitor) of miRNA, linked by linker, which adsorbs the binding miRNA (it may adsorb but not degrade, or it may lead to degradation of miRNA), resulting in miRNA not functioning biologically. LV3-has-miR-552 mimics and LV3-has-miR-552 sponge were packaged as a lentivirus. The lentivirus titers are about 1 × 108 TU/ml. HO8910 and HGSOC cells were seeded into 6-well plate and then added 100 μl lentivirus. The stable infectants were screening by using puromycin [18].
For cell proliferation analysis, ovarian cancer cells were seeded in 96-well plates (3 × 103 cells per well). ATP activity was measured using a Cell Counting Kit-8 at indicated time points. ATP activity was measured using a Cell Counting Kit-8 at indicated time points. The procedure was as follows: The cell suspension (100 μl/well) was inoculated in a 96-well plate, and the plate was pre-incubated in a humidified incubator at 37 °C for 1 h. This was followed by the addition of 10 μl of the CCK-8 solution to each well of the plate, and incubation of the plate for 1 h in the incubator. Finally, the absorbance was measured at 450 nm using a microplate reader (Synergy H1; BioTek Instruments, Inc., Winooski, VT, USA) [19].
For colony formation assay, ovarian cancer cells were cultured in 12-well plates (3 × 103 cells/well). The cells were incubated at 37 °C for 7 days and then fixed with with 10% neutral formalin for > 4 h. The cells were dyed with crystal violet (Beyotime, Haimen, China). The cells were photographed under a microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan).
For cell EdU immunofluorescence staining, ovarian cancer cells were seeded into 96-well plates and performed using the EdU Kit (RiboBio). The results were quantified with a Zeiss axiophot photomicroscope (Carl Zeiss) and Image-Pro plus 6.0 software.
For cell migration experiments, 2 × 105 ovarian cancer cells were seeded into the upper chamber of a polycarbonate transwell in serum-free RPMI-1640 medium. The lower chamber was added with RPMI-1640 medium containing 20% FBS as chemoattractant. The cells were incubating for 12 h and the chamber was fixed with 10% neutral formalin for > 4 h. The cells were dyed with crystal violet (Beyotime). The cells were then counted under a microscope (Olympus) and the cell number is expressed as the average number of the cells in each field.
For cell invasion experiments, 2 × 105 ovarian cells were seeded into the upper chamber of a polycarbonate transwell in serum-free RPMI-1640 medium. The lower chamber was added with RPMI-1640 medium containing 20% FBS as chemoattractant. The cells were incubating for 24 h and the chamber was fixed with 10% neutral formalin for > 4 h. The cells were dyed with crystal violet (Beyotime). The cells were then counted under a microscope (Olympus) and the cell number is expressed as the average number of the cells in each field.
For detection of mature miR-552, total RNA was subjected to reverse transcription using a TaqMan MicroRNA Reverse Transcription Kit (Applied Biosystems). qRT-PCR analysis of miR-552 expression was carried out using TaqMan MicroRNA assay kits (Applied Biosystems). Results were normalized to U6 snRNA using the comparative threshold cycle (Ct) method. The miR-552 primer sequences were forward: 5′ AACAGGTGACTGGTTAGACAA 3′, U6 primer sequences were forward: 5′ ATTGGAACGATACAGAGAAGATT 3′.

The total cells RNA were extracted by using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, 15596–018). Total cDNAs were synthesized by ThermoScript TM RT-PCR system (Invitrogen, 11146–057). The total mRNA amount presented in the cells was measured by RT-PCR using the ABI PRISM 7300 sequence detector (Applied Biosystems). The PTEN primer sequences were forward: 5′ TCCCAGACATGACAGCCATC 3′, reverse: 5′ TGCTTTGAATCCAAAAACCTTACT 3′. The β-actin was used as reference for relative expression calculation and its primer sequences were forward: 5′ GGCCCAGAATGCAGTTCGCCTT 3′, reverse: 5′ AATGGCACCCTGCTCACGCA 3′.
Thirty micrograms of proteins were subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and then transferred to the nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane was blocked with 5% non-fat milk and incubated with the primary antibody for 1.5 h. The protein band, specifically bound to the primary antibody, was detected using an IRDye 800CW-conjugated secondary antibody and LI-COR imaging system (LI-COR Biosciences). The primary antibodies were PTEN (1:1000; # 9188, Cell Signaling Technology) and GAPDH (1:5000; #5174, Cell Signaling Technology).
The luciferase assays were carried out using the Dual-luciferase Reporter Assay System (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). Briefly, cells were co-transfected with miR-552 mimics or miR-control and pMIR-reporter luciferase vector containing a specific sequence of wild-type or mutant PTEN fragment, using siRNA transfection (Invitrogen, NY, USA). Cells were collected and lysed for luciferase detection 48 h after transfection. The relative luciferase activity was normalized against to the Renilla luciferase activity.
All statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism (GraphPad Software, Inc. La Jolla, USA). Statistical analysis was carried out using t test or Bonferroni Multiple Comparisons Test: *p < 0.05. A p value of less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
All animal experiments were approved by the animal ethics committee of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and carried out according to German guidelines for experimental animal welfare. Six- to 17-week-old male and female C57BL/6J WT and Tlr3/7/9−/− were obtained from the animal facility of the University Hospital Essen or from Harlan Winkelmann GmbH (Borchen, Germany) and housed under standard conditions in individually ventilated cage racks. Six- to 12-week-old male and female Tlr single and Tlr double KO mice were provided by Stefan Bauer, Philipps-University Marburg.
The murine oropharyngeal cell lines (MOPCs) were kindly provided by J. Lee (Sanford Research/University of South Dakota) and cultured in medium containing DMEM high glucose and Ham's F12 (3:1) (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Karlsruhe, Germany) supplemented with 10 % (v/v) heat-inactivated FCS (Biochrom, Berlin, Germany), 100 IU ml−1 penicillin, 100 μg ml−1 streptomycin (Thermo Fisher Scientific), epidermal growth factor (5 μg ml−1) (Biochrom), insulin (5 μg ml−1), transferrin (5 μg ml−1), cholera toxin (0.0084 μg ml−1), hydrocortisone (0.5 μg ml−1) and tri-iodo-thyronine (0.00136 μg ml−1) (Sigma-Aldrich, Taufkirchen, Germany)51. MOPC−eGFP cells were generated by lentiviral gene transfer using a pCL6IEGwo empty vector52 and enriched to >90 % enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) positivity by FACS analysis. The murine lung carcinoma cell line TC1 was kindly provided by Z. Fridlender (Hadassah Medical Center, Israel) and the murine bladder cancer cell line MB49 by K. Esuvaranathan (University of Singapore, Singapore). Both cell lines were cultured in DMEM high glucose supplemented with 10 % (v/v) FCS, 100 IU ml−1 penicillin, 100 μg ml−1 streptomycin and 1 mM sodium pyruvate (Thermo Fisher Scientific). All cells were routinely tested for mycoplasma contamination using the Venor Mycoplasma Detection Kit (Minerva Biolabs, Berlin, Germany).
Syngeneic murine cell lines were either injected s.c. into the flank or into the Musculus mylohyoideus (orthotopic injection). Tumour cells (0.5 × 106–2 × 106) were applied in PBS using a 27-gauge syringe under anaesthesia. After s.c. injection, tumour volume was measured every other day in two dimensions and tumour volume was estimated according to the following formula

An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is ncomms14600-m1.jpg
After orthotopic injection, weight of the mice was measured daily. Mice were killed after a weight loss of >20 % in accordance with animal welfare guidelines.
For splenocyte and lymph node cell isolation, tissue was dissociated with a plunger. BM was collected from femurs by flushing the bone with a 23-gauge needle. Erythrocyte lysis in splenocyte and BM was performed by applying distilled water to the cell pellet for 20 s before readjusting osmolarity with 2 × PBS. Cell suspensions were passed through a 50 μm filter and cultured in RPMI-1640 (Thermo Fisher Scientific) supplemented with 10 % (v/v) heat-inactivated FCS, 100 IU ml−1 penicillin and 100 μg ml−1 streptomycin or in PBS.

T cells were isolated with the PanT cell isolation Kit (Miltenyi, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Purity was >90 % in all experiments.
Tumour tissue was cut into 2–3 mm pieces in PBS, centrifuged at 300 g for 7 min and resuspended with 1 ml enzyme mix containing 0.2 mg ml−1 Collagenase D, 0.2 mg ml−1 Dispase 1 and 0.1 mg ml−1 DNase (all from Sigma-Aldrich). After 45 min incubation at 37 °C, the cells were passed through a 100 μm filter and kept in RPMI-1640, supplemented as described above, until analysis.
C57BL/6 WT and Tlr3/7/9−/− mice were exposed to one dose (9.5–10.5 grey) total body irradiation, from a γ-beam 60Co source (Philips, Germany). Donor BM cells from C57BL/6 WT and Tlr3/7/9−/− mice were isolated as described above. Recipient mice were injected intravenously with 5 × 106 BM cells in 0.2 ml PBS 1 day after irradiation. BM from WT mice was injected into TLR-deficient mice and vice versa. Mice receiving BM of the same genotype served as control. To achieve haematopoietic reconstitution, mice were allowed to recover for 8 weeks until 0.5 × 106 MOPC tumour cells were injected s.c. into the flank of the mice. Tumour growth was measured every other day for 1 month
αGr-1 antibody (RB6-8C5, BioXCell, West Lebanon, USA) was used to deplete Gr-1-positive cells by intraperitoneal injection of 200 μg antibody diluted in 0.9 % NaCl. Treatment started 3 days before tumour cell injection and was repeated every third day throughout the experiment. For depletion of CD8 or CD4 T cells, 100 μg antibody (CD8, 2.43, BioXCell and CD4, GK1.5, BioXCell) was used the same way with application intervals of 7 days. Control groups were treated with isotype antibody (rat IgG2a LTF-2, BioXCell) using the same regimen as applied for the specific antibody. Depletion was verified using peripheral blood from tail veins and flow cytometry.
Explanted tumour pieces with a mean weight of 12 mg were cultured at 20 mg ml−1 in medium for 48 h to generate tumour explant SNs. SNs were collected, centrifuged to remove cell debris and stored at −20 °C until analysis.

The murine cytokines IL-6 and IL-24 were detected using DuoSet ELISA Kits (R&D Systems, Wiesbaden, Germany) and mouse IFN-γ was detected using OptEIA Set ELISA Kit (BD Biosciences, Heidelberg, Germany) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Absorbance at 450 nm was measured with a Synergy II microplate reader (BioTek, Bad Friedrichshall, Germany).
Cells were stained with fluorochrome-coupled antibodies in PBS supplemented with 5% murine serum and 10% FCS for 20 min at 4 °C. The following antibody conjugates and respective clones were used: CD11b-PE-Cy7 (clone 3A33, 2 μg ml−1, Abcam, Cambridge, UK), Ly6G-PerCP-Cy5.5 (clone 1A8, 2 μg ml−1, BioLegend, Fell, Germany), CD4-V450 (clone 2B11, 4 μg ml−1, BD Biosciences), CD4 (BV605, RM4-5, 0.25 μg ml−1, BioLegend), CD8 (AF700, 53-6.7, 1 μg ml−1, eBioscience), CD8-V500 (clone 53-6.7, 4 μg ml−1, BD Biosciences), CD3 (AF700, 17A2, 1 μg ml−1, eBioscience), CD107a (fluorescein isothiocyanate, 1D4B, 0.5 μg ml−1, BioLegend), CD43 (PerCP, 1B11, 0.25 μg ml−1, BioLegend), CD62L (BV510, Mel14, 0.25 μg ml−1 BioLegend), CD154 (PE, MR1, 0.25 μg ml−1, eBioscience), CD244.2 (APC, eBio244F4, 1 μg ml−1, eBioscience), LAG3 (PE, eBioC9B7W, 0.25 μg ml−1, eBioscience), PD-1 (PE, J43, 1 μg ml−1, eBioscience) and Tim-3 (PerCP, 215008, 1:100, R&D). Dead cells (Fixable Viability Dye eFluor 780 positive, eBioscience) and doublets were excluded from analyses. Intracellular staining of granzyme B (APC, GB12, 0.25 μg ml−1 Life Technologies), Eomes (PerCp-eF710, Dan11mag, 1 μg ml−1, eBioscience) and FoxP3 (PE, eFlour610 FJK-16s, 1 μg ml−1, eBioscience) was performed after fixation and permeabilization step with Foxp3 Fixation kit (Foxp3/Transcription Factor Fixation/Permeabilization Concentrate and Diluent, eBioscience) according to the manufacturer's protocol.

For intracellular cytokine staining, the lymph node cells and tumour cells were incubated with plate-bound anti-CD3 (145-2C11, 4 μg ml−1, BioLegend) and soluble anti-CD28 (37.51, 2 μg ml−1, BioLegend) for 4 h at 37 °C in the presence of brefeldin A (2 μg ml−1, Sigma-Aldrich). Cells were washed twice, incubated with anti-Fcγ 2/3 receptor (2.4G2, 1 μg ml−1, eBioscienc) to block Fc receptors and stained for surface markers. The cells were then washed and permeabilized using the Cytofix/Cytoperm intracellular staining kit (Becton Dickinson) and reacted with monoclonal antibodies specific for IL-2 (eF450, JES6-5H4, 0.5 μg ml−1, eBioscience), IFN-γ (fluorescein isothiocyanate, XMG1.2, 0.5 μg ml−1, eBioscience) and TNF-α (BV510, MP6-XT22, 1 μg ml−1, BioLegend). Isotype control antibodies were used at the same concentration as the specific antibodies.

Data were recorded at a FACS CantoII using DIVA 6.0 software (BD Biosciences) or on a LSR II (BD Biosciences) using FlowJo (Treestar).
MOPC tumour cells (2 × 106) were injected s.c. into C57BL/6 WT and Tlr3/7/9−/− mice. After 6 days, tumours were dissected and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Tumour tissue was mechanically minced and total RNA was isolated following the instructions of the RNeasy MINI Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). RNA concentration and purity were controlled using the micro cuvette G1.0 (Eppendorf, Wesseling-Berzdorf, Germany) and a BioPhotometer (Eppendorf). Two hundred and fifty nanograms of RNA was transcribed into complementary DNA using the 3′-IVT Expression Plus Kit (Affymetrix, High Wycombe, UK). cDNA was analysed using the Affymetrix Chip (MG-430_2.0) in the Biochip core facility of the Medical Faculty of the University Duisburg-Essen.
For quantitative RT–PCR analysis, total RNA was isolated from tumour tissue using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen) and reverse transcribed with random-hexamer primer and Superscript II RT, according to the manufacturer's instructions (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Quantitative real-time PCR was conducted with Maxima SYBR Green quantitative PCR Master Mix (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Bonn, Germany)53. Primers are listed in Supplementary Table 1. Annealing temperature was 60 °C for all primers.
Tumour tissue was frozen in optimal cutting temperature (OCT) embedding medium on liquid nitrogen and stored at −80 °C. Frozen sectioning was performed at 5 μm thickness. For morphological analysis, tumours were stained by haematoxylin–eosin. Colorimetric immunohistochemistry was performed after fixation of tissue with the Cytofix/Cytoperm Kit (BD Biosciences) and incubation with hydrogen peroxide (DAKO, Hamburg, Germany). Slices were incubated for 60 min at room temperature with the primary monoclonal antibody in a humid chamber. Subsequently, samples were incubated with secondary antibodies for 30 min and for 10 min with AEC Single Solution (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Nuclei were visualized by Shandon Instant Hematoxylin (Thermo Fisher Scientific)28. The following primary (rat-α-mouse) and secondary antibodies were used: rat αCD31 (clone MEC13.3, 1:1,000), rat αGR1 (clone RB6-8C5, 1:100), rat αCD4 (clone RM4-5, 1:500, all from BD Biosciences), rat αCD11b (clone M1/70.15, 1:1,000; Thermo Scientific), rat αCD8α (clone KT15, 1:500, AbD Serotec/Bio-Rad, Düsseldorf, Germany), rabbit αDesmin (ab15200, 1:600, Abcam), rabbit α-rat HRPO, goat α-rabbit HRPO (both 1:100, Dianova, Hamburg, Germany), donkey α-rabbit-Alexa594 (1:800) and goat α-rat-Alexa488 (1:200) (both from Thermo Fisher Scientific).

Double fluorescence staining of tumour tissue was performed after fixation with BD Cytofix/Cytoperm overnight at 4 °C with rat αCD31 (1:1,000) and rabbit αCaspase 3 (active) (1:100, R&D Systems), and rat αCD4 (1:500) or rat αCD8 (1:500) together with sheep αKi67/MKI67 (1:200, R&D Systems), followed by staining for 30 min at room temperature with the secondary reagents goat-α-rabbit Cy3, donkey-α-sheep Cy3 (both 1:400, Dianova) and goat-α-rat Alexa488 (1:200, Thermo Scientific). Nuclei were visualized by 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining (1:36,000, BioLegend). For verification of vascular maturation, desmin-positive vessels were quantified by manual counting of up to five fields per tumour, including 100 vessels in total, using the mean of three tumour sections per tumour (top, middle and base) of concordant distance29.

For quantification of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes and vessels, images were taken using Axioskop 2 (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) and AxioVision (Carl Zeiss) software as indicated in the experiment. Cells were quantified by manual counting of individual cells of four microscopic fields taken at × 200 magnification. Quantification was done by independent investigators in a blinded manner. Quantification of pericyte coverage was performed by manual counting of up to five fields per tumour, including 100 vessels in total, using the mean of three tumour section per tumour (top, middle and base) of concordant distance. Vessel analysis was performed by using the BX51 (Olympus, Hamburg, Germany) and corresponding Cell P Software. For representative pictures, images were processed in the same file simultaneously in Photoshop CS5 (Adobe Systems, San Jose, USA).
Apoptosis of cultured cells was detected using AnnexinV:PE Apoptosis Detection Kit (BD Biosciences) via flow cytometry, according to the manufacturer's protocol. In frozen sections of tumour tissue, total amounts of apoptotic cells were quantified by APO-DIRECT TUNEL staining (BD Biosciences). 7-Aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD) (BD Biosciences) was used as nuclear staining. To determine the number of TUNEL-positive cells in relation to the whole tumour area, digital images taken at × 25 magnification were analysed using Image J software (NIH, Bethesda, USA).
MOPC−eGFP cells (1 × 106) were injected s.c. into WT and Tlr3/7/9−/− mice. If vessel staining was required, 10 μg of the rat-α-mouse CD31 (clone MEC13.3, BioLegend) antibody coupled with Alexa Fluor 647 was injected retrobulbarly in each mouse (20 μg ml−1). Injection was carried out under anaesthesia by intraperitoneal application of ketamine and xylazine dose at 100 and 10 mg per kg body weight, respectively, and diluted in 0.9 % NaCl for injection of 10 μl per g body weight. Twenty minutes later, mice were killed and perfused by injection of 20 ml 5 mM EDTA/PBS (pH 7.2) into the left ventricle of the heart followed by 20 ml 4 % paraformaldehyde (PFA). Tumours were dissected and the 3DISCO protocol was used for clearing54. Briefly, tumours were incubated in tetrahydrofuran with increasing concentration (30, 50, 80, 100% (v/v)), for 30 min each. Subsequent incubation in dibenzyl ether was performed overnight. Vascularization of the tumours was analysed using the lightsheet illumination technique of the LaVision BioTec Ultramicroscope (Olympus). Data were analysed using the ImageJ and Imaris 8.0.2 Software (Imaris, Cologne, Germany).
Recipient WT and Tlr3/7/9−/− mice were s.c injected with 1 × 106 MOPC−eGFP tumour cells 6 days before adoptive transfer. Donor mice were s.c. injected with 1 × 106 MOPC−eGFP tumour cells 10 days before harvesting of donor splenocytes. Splenocytes of WT and Tlr3/7/9−/− donor mice were isolated and labelled with 1 μM CellTracker Deep Red Dye (Thermo Scientific). Labelled splenocytes (10 × 106) were injected intravenously into recipient mice. One day later, tumours were dissected and cleared. Infiltration of transferred splenocytes was examined by generating 3D images using ultramicroscopy.
Statistical significance was assessed with the Student's t-test for comparison of two groups or analysis of variance if more than two groups were compared. Number of mice per group is indicated for each experiment and individual mice are shown for most experiments. Sample size was determined based on previous preliminary data. No animals were excluded from analysis and no explicit method of randomization was used to assign animals to experimental groups. Results were considered significant at *P⩽0.05, **P⩽0.005 and ***P⩽0.0005. Hierarchical clustering of gene expression data was performed with R software (The R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria).
Microarray data supporting the findings in this article were deposited in NCBI's Gene Expression Omnibus under the GEO Series accession code GSE92358. All other data generated or analysed during this study are included in this published article and its Supplementary Information files or available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
All reagents and chemicals were purchased with the highest purity available. PolyU RNA with a molecular weight range from 800 to 1000 kDa was purchased from Sigma Aldrich as lyophilized powder and dissolved into a stock of 5 mg/mL in 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2) before use. ATP was obtained from Fisher Scientific and a 50 mM stock solution was prepared in 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2). 1,6-Hexanediol was purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. and a 40% (w/v) stock solution was prepared in 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2). KCl was from Fisher Scientific and all the chloride salts used in the Hofmeister series experiments were from Sigma Aldrich. The PR25 peptide containing 25 Pro–Arg repeats was obtained from GenScript. N-terminally labeled PR25 was obtained by reacting the peptide with amine-reactive AlexaFluor546 (Sigma Aldrich).
Expression and purification of FUS wildtype and FUS G156E were adapted from Patel et al.18. In short, proteins were expressed in Sf9 insect cells (Expression Systems, Cat#94-001F) using the baculovirus system107 and produced as C-terminal EGFP fusions with an N-terminal maltose-binding protein (MBP) tag and a C-terminal hexahistidine (His6) tag. Cells expressing MBP-FUS-EGFP-His6 and MBP-FUS(G156E)-EGFP-His6 were harvested 72 h post infection by centrifugation at 2000 rpm for 5 min and resuspended in 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 1 M KCl, 5% (w/v) glycerol, 1 mM DTT, 10 mM imidazole supplemented with EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail set III (Calbiochem) and 0.25 U/mL benzonase (in-house, provided by the MPI-CBG protein expression facility). Cell lysis was done with an LM20 shear homogenizer (Microfluidics) at 5000 psi. The lysate was clarified by centrifugation at 16,000 rpm for 20 min. The supernatant was loaded onto Protino nickel-nitrolotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) columns (Macherey-Nagel) with a peristaltic pump and washed with 10 column volumes of lysis buffer. Elution was done with 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 1 M KCl, 5% (w/v) glycerol, and 500 mM imidazole. His6 and MBP tags were proteolytically removed with 3C-His6 preScission protease (in-house, provided by the MPI-CBG protein expression facility). The mixture was incubated at room temperature for 4 h. The samples were then applied to a Superdex 200 pg 26/600 size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) column (GE Healthcare) equilibrated with 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 500 mM KCl, 1 mM DTT, and 5% (w/v) glycerol using a BIOCAD 60 chromatography system (Applied BioSystems). Protein fractions were pooled, concentrated with a 30,000 MWCO Amicon Ultra concentrator (Millipore), then aliquoted in tubes, flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80 °C until usage.
The protein was expressed in and purified from Sf9 insect cells (Expression Systems, Cat# 94-001F) using the baculovirus system107. The protein was produced as a fusion protein with an N-terminal MBP tag and a C-terminal monomeric EGFP followed by a His6 tag. Baculovirus-infected cells expressing MBP-TDP-43-EGFP-His6 were harvested 72 h post infection and resuspended in lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 1 M KCl, 5% (w/v) glycerol, 10 mM imidazole, 1 mM DTT) supplemented with Complete protease inhibitor EDTA-free cocktail (Roche) and 0.25 U/mL benzonase (in-house, provided by the MPI-CBG protein expression facility). Cells were lysed with an Emulsiflex C5 high-pressure homogenizer (Avestin) at 20,000 psi. The lysate was cleared by centrifugation at 10 °C for 45 min and 25,000 rpm. The supernatant was incubated with 5 mL Ni-NTA (Qiagen) equilibrated with lysis buffer. Elution of the bound protein was done with lysis buffer supplemented with 250 mM imidazole. The MBP and His6 tags were removed by overnight proteolytic digest at 4 °C with 3C-His6 preScission protease (in-house, provided by the MPI-CBG protein expression facility). The protein was then gel-filtrated using a Superdex 200 pg 16/600 column (GE Healthcare) equilibrated with 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 500 mM KCl, 5% (w/v) glycerol, 1 mM DTT. Fractions containing the target protein were pooled, concentrated, aliquoted and stored at –80 °C.
The protein was expressed in and purified from Escherichia coli as an N-terminal His6-Sumo-tagged fusion protein with an ULP protease cleavage site, as previously described28. Briefly, the pOPINS bacterial expression vector carrying the His6-Sumo-tagged A11 construct was transformed into competent E. coli BL21(DE3) cells and expressed overnight at 25 °C in Terrific Broth (TB) autoinduction media. Cells were harvested by centrifugation for 20 min at 5000 rpm and lysed in resuspension buffer (25 mM HEPES (pH 7.4), 225 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, 1 mM EDTA) by a high-pressure cell disruption system. The cell lysate was clarified by high-speed ultracentrifugation for 30 min at 45,000 rpm, prior to loading on a 5.0 mL Ni-Sepharose Advance (Bioserv) gravity column. After batch binding the protein for 1 h at 4 °C, the column was washed with 10 column volumes of wash buffer (25 mM HEPES (pH 7.4), 225 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, 1 mM EDTA, and 25 mM imidazole). Protein elution was done with 25 mM HEPES (pH 7.4), 225 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, 1 mM EDTA, and 250 mM imidazole. Purified column eluates were run on an SDS-PAGE and the fractions containing the protein were pooled, mixed with ULP protease (at a fusion protein: protease ratio of 200:1) to remove the tags. After treatment with the His6-tagged ULP protease and dialysis in 25 mM HEPES (pH 7.4) and 225 mM NaCl, the cleaved protein was applied onto a second Ni-Sepharose Advance column (Bioserv) to remove the His6-Sumo tag and the His6-ULP. Purified protein-containing fractions were pooled and concentrated using a Vivaspin (Generon) concentrator (30,000 MWCO). All purification steps were performed at 4 °C. The concentrated sample was aliquoted and snap-frozen using liquid nitrogen and stored at –80 °C for subsequent use. Labeling of purified A11 protein using AlexaFluor647 dye was performed following the manufacturer’s instructions (Thermo Scientific). Briefly, 2.0 mg of the protein in 25 mM HEPES, 225 mM NaCl pH 7.4 buffer was mixed with 100 µg of the dye and incubated at 4 °C for 4 h. Following incubation, the protein was applied on a Superdex 25 column (Biorad) to separate the free dye from the conjugated protein‒dye complex. The labeled protein was aliquoted, snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at –80 °C until usage.
The protein was expressed in and purified from Sf9 insect cells (Expression Systems, Cat#94-001F) using the baculovirus system107 and produced as a C-terminal monoGFP fusion protein with N-terminal His6 and MBP tags. Cells expressing His6-MBP-Sox2-GFP were harvested 72 h post infection and resuspended in Sox2 buffer (50 mM Bis-Tris-Propane (pH 7.5), 500 mM KCl, 5% glycerol, 1 mM DTT) supplemented with EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail set III (Calbiochem) and 0.25 U/mL Benzonase (in-house) and lysed by sonication. The lysate was clarified by centrifugation for 2.5 h at 13,000×g and 4 °C. The supernatant was applied to an Econo-Pac gravity columns (Bio-Rad) filled with amylose resin (NEB). After washing the beads with three column volumes of Sox2 buffer, the protein was eluted with Sox2 buffer supplemented with 50 mM maltose. The His6-MBP moiety was removed by incubation with 140 U 3C preScission protease (in-house) on a rotator for 3 h at room temperature. After concentrating of the protein to about 2.5 mL using a 50,000 MWCO Amicon Ultra concentrator (Millipore), the protein was diluted again with a solution containing 50 mM Bis-Tris-Propane pH 7.5, 5% glycerol and 1 mM DTT to a final KCl concentration of 100 mM. Next, cation exchange was performed using a HiTrap SP HP column (GE Healthcare) and 50 mM Bis-Tris-Propane pH 7.4, 5% glycerol and 1 mM DTT as a buffer with a KCl gradient ranging from 100 mM to 1 M. Fractions containing Sox2-GFP were pooled and subjected to SEC using a Superdex 200 Increase 10/300 GL column (GE Healthcare) and Sox2 storage buffer (50 mM Bis-Tris-Propane (pH 7.5), 500 mM KCl, 1 mM DTT, 5% glycerol). As before, protein-containing fractions were pooled and concentrated with a 30,000 MWCO Amicon Ultra concentrator (Millipore). The protein was then aliquoted, snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at –80 °C until usage.
The proteins was expressed in and purified from Sf9 insect cells (Expression Systems, Cat# 94-001F) using the baculovirus system107 and produced as an N-terminal monoGFP fusion protein with His6 and MBP tags. Cells expressing His6-MBP-GFP-Brd4 were resuspended in Brd4 buffer (50 mM Tris pH 7.5, 500 mM KCl, 5 mM EDTA, 5% glycerol) supplemented with EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail set III (Calbiochem) and 0.25 U/mL Benzonase (in-house) and lysed by sonication. The lysate was clarified by centrifugation for 1 h at 13,000 g and 4 °C. The supernatant was applied to an Econo-Pac gravity column (Bio-Rad) filled with amylose resin (NEB). After washing the beads with three column volumes of Brd4 buffer, the protein was eluted with Brd4 buffer supplemented with 50 mM maltose. The His6-MBP moiety was removed by incubation with 70 U 3 C preScission protease (in-house) on a rotator for 2 h at room temperature. After concentrating of the protein using a 30,000 MWCO Amicon Ultra concentrator (Millipore), the protein subjected to SEC using a Superdex 200 Increase 10/300 GL column (GE Healthcare) and Brd4 storage buffer (50 mM Tris pH 7.5, 500 mM KCl, 2 mM EDTA, 5% glycerol, 1 mM DTT). As before, protein-containing fractions were pooled and concentrated with a 30,000 MWCO Amicon Ultra concentrator (Millipore). The protein was then aliquoted, snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at –80 °C until usage.
To induce phase separation, appropriate amounts of salt, water, and additives, as indicated, were added to the protein/peptide stock solutions and mixed by pipetting. In all cases the buffer contained 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2), except for Brd4 and Sox2, which contained 5 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 0.2 mM EDTA, 0.5% glycerol and 5 mM Bis-Tris-Propane (pH 7.5), 0.5% glycerol, respectively. Phase-separated samples were prepared in tubes and imaged within 1–5 min to limit any aging effects; Brd4 and Sox2 were imaged after an incubation period of 10–20 min.

Phase diagrams of FUS and PR25 were generated by mixing protein/peptide stocks with the respective salt solutions in 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2), as described above. The resulting sample solutions were then imaged immediately after preparation. Phase diagrams were constructed by systematically screening through conditions and assessing conditions in which a dense phase or a well-mixed state was detected. Regions close to the phase boundary were mapped out and each point on the phase diagram was tested at least three times.
Imaging of FUS, FUS G156E, TDP-43, A11, and PR25 samples was performed on an inverted fluorescence microscope (Zeiss AxioObserver D1) equipped with a high-sensitivity camera (Evolve 512 EMCCD, Photometrics) by placing an aliquot of the sample (3 μL) on a microscope slide mounted on the microscope stage. Images were acquired using the MetaMorph acquisition software (Molecular Devices). FUS, FUS G156E, TDP-43, and PR25 samples were imaged using a Zeiss A-Plan 20x/0.30 NA air objective; A11 samples were imaged on a Zeiss A-Plan 100x/1.25 NA oil-immersion objective. In experiments with FUS proteins and TDP-43, an appropriate filter set for GFP detection was used (49002, Chroma Technology). Similarly, labeled PR25 was detected with a filter set for AlexaFluor546 fluorescence detection (49004, Chroma Technology). A11 was imaged with a filter set for AlexaFluor647 fluorescence detection (49009, Chroma Technology). Imaging of Brd4 and Sox2 was performed on a Nikon-Andor Eclipse Ti inverted spinning disc confocal microscope equipped with an Andor iXON 897 EMCCD camera and a 60x/1.2 NA water-immersion objective (Nikon). Brd4 and Sox2 samples were transferred to glass slides that were pre-prepared by first cutting a strip of double-sided tape (Scotch) into 1 × 1 cm squares which were then stuck onto the glass slides. In total, 2 µL of the sample was pipetted onto each slide and a PEGylated coverslip was used to seal the chamber in the distance of the tape. For experiments involving dissolution induced by additives, components were mixed 3:1 with 3 μL of phase-separated protein at the specified salt concentration with 1 μL of the additional component (i.e., 1,6-hexanediol, PolyU RNA, ATP). The final concentrations of protein and additional components are stated in each figure.
PMF calculations were carried out using the GROMACS simulation package (version 2019.3)108. Amino acids were modeled using the AMBERff03ws force field76. Since we are interested in probing interaction potentials at very high-salt concentrations (up to 3 M NaCl), it is very important that the solvent and ion model parameters employed are well-fitted to fairly reproduce ion solubilities in water at 298 K (i.e., an absence of unphysical salt crystallization). The JC-SPC/E-ion/TIP4P/2005 force field has been optimized for that purpose, and so it was used in this work77. The N- and C-terminal ends of each amino acid were capped with acetyl and N-methyl capping groups, respectively. Pairs of amino acids were oriented with their sidechains facing each other, based on the most common arrangements observed in protein structures. Dimers were immersed in a cubic box containing TIP4P/2005 water molecules (ca. 1400–3400 molecules) with a minimum distance of 1.0 nm between the dimer and the edge of the box. When necessary, some water molecules were replaced by Na+ and/or Cl– ions to produce neutral systems. Energy minimizations (force tolerance = 500 kJ mol–1 nm–1) were performed for the neutralized systems, with positional restraints of 20,000 kJ mol–1 nm–2 applied in each dimension to all amino acid heavy-atoms. Na+ and Cl– ions were then added to yield the desired salt concentrations (0 M, 0.15 M, 1.5 M, 3 M).

For production runs, positional restraints of 1000 kJ mol–1 nm–2 (in the directions perpendicular to the pulling direction) were used to constrain amino acid heavy-atoms. The center-of-mass (COM) distance between amino acid pairs was restrained with a harmonic umbrella potential (pulling force constant = 6000 kJ mol−1 nm−2). Bonds with hydrogens were constrained using the LINCS algorithm, permitting an integration time step of 2 fs. Periodic boundary conditions (PBC) were used during MD simulations and electrostatics were computed using Particle-Mesh Ewald summations109 with a Coulomb cutoff of 0.9 nm. For each concentration, ~30 windows, spaced at 0.05 nm from 0.1 to 1.6 nm, were used per amino acid pair. Each window was simulated for 10 ns. Three independent simulations were conducted for each umbrella sampling window (i.e., an aggregate simulation time of 30 ns per window). Umbrella sampling simulations were analyzed using WHAM110, as implemented in GROMACS. The first 1000 ps of simulations were used for equilibration and were not included in the WHAM analysis. Error analysis was performed using the Bayesian bootstrap method111.
To study the impact of salt on cation–π interactions, which are not well captured by standard atomistic force fields79 because they involve the polarization of the π-electron cloud80 of an aromatic sidechain (Tyr, Phe, Trp) due to the cationic sidechain (Lys, Arg), we refitted the charges on the Tyr and Phe sidechains when bound to Arg or Lys. We first performed constrained (i.e., backbone and capping group heavy-atoms were frozen) geometry optimizations of each dimer (Arg–Tyr, Arg–Phe, Lys–Phe) at the MP2/6-31G(d) level of theory using the Gaussian 09 program112. The electrostatic surface potential (ESP) was then computed for each optimized pair at HF/6-31G(d) level. Finally, the sidechain charges of Tyr and Phe were refitted based on the quantum mechanical EPSs using the RESP program in Amber (maintaining the charge symmetry in the rings)11
We have implemented a reparametrized version (see ‘Experimental validation and refinement of coarse-grained model’ below) of the sequence-dependent coarse-grained model of the Mittal group, originally developed to capture qualitatively the sequence-dependent phase behavior of proteins that undergo LLPS at physiological salt conditions (~100 mM NaCl)16. The model implements a resolution of one bead per amino acid and a sequence-dependent set of parameters derived top-down to approximate the single-molecule experimental radius of gyration of a wide range of intrinsically disordered proteins. Intrinsically disordered protein regions are treated as flexible polymers and globular regions as rigid bodies. Inter-residue bonds within the disordered domains are described using harmonic springs. Long-range electrostatics are modeled using a Coulombic term with Debye–Hückel electrostatic screening. Nonbonded pairwise interactions are modeled using a knowledge-based potential termed hydrophobicity scale (HPS) model that is based on one of the hydrophobicity scales for amino acids available114. For the globular protein domains, a 30% scaled-down set of the HPS parameters was used to account for buried amino acids. Because the model distinguishes between disordered and globular protein regions and maintains the secondary structure of globular regions, it requires an initial atomistic model for the proteins; these are described below.
We simulated the phase behavior of the full-length FUS protein (Uniprot code: K7DPS7, 526 residues, 24 proteins), the prion-like domain (PLD) of FUS for validation only (residues: 1–163, 100 proteins), and a reduced version of the PR25 protein (13 Arg and 12 Pro residues alternately positioned, 400 proteins). Since the structure of full-length FUS has not been resolved, we developed an atomistic model by fusing the intrinsically disordered regions with the resolved structural domains (residues from 285–371 (Protein Data Bank (PDB) code: 2LCW) and from 422–453 (PDB code: 6G99)). An initial intrinsically disordered model for PR25 was developed in VMD1
To evaluate the formation of liquid condensates in the different systems, we performed direct coexistence simulations116–118 at constant volume and temperature. The direct coexistence method simulates the condensate and diluted phases in the same box separated by an interface. The initial simulation box was prepared by running simulations at constant temperature and a pressure of 1 bar, using the Berendsen barostat, and then enlarging the simulation box in one direction approximately four times. The simulation temperatures were chosen to be just below the correspondent critical temperatures for each system: 400 K for full-length FUS and 200 K for PR25. For the production runs, each system was simulated for ~2.5 μs, using a Langevin thermostat with a relaxation time of 5 ps and a time step of 10 fs119. The LAMMPS software MD package was used to carry out all the coarse-grained simulations120.
To verify that the HPS model captures qualitatively the experimental phase behavior of FUS at low salt, we first used it to compute the phase diagrams of the PLD of FUS and the full FUS protein. While experiments demonstrate a higher LLPS propensity of the full FUS protein than of the PLD15,93, our simulations with the original parametrization found a ~20% higher critical point for the PLD of FUS versus full FUS. The PLD is almost completely devoid of charged residues but rich in Tyr, and its LLPS has been shown experimentally to be stabilized by hydrophobic forces62. In contrast, full FUS contains three Arg-rich motifs, and experiments demonstrate that its LLPS at low salt is dependent on Arg–Tyr cation–π interactions21, and electrostatic screening inhibits LLPS (as demonstrated experimentally in this work). These findings suggested that enhanced cation–π and electrostatic interactions were required to achieve a qualitative agreement with the FUS experimental behavior. When we included an additional term in the potential energy to increase the strength of cation–π interactions at low salt, as recently proposed121, we qualitatively recover a higher critical temperature for full FUS versus its PLD. Our PMFs indicate that when transitioning from low to moderate salt, electrostatic interactions diminish significantly, while hydrophobic interactions remain strong, giving rise to reentrant phase behavior. However, when we tested the HPS + cation–π enhanced model in the extreme scenario of no electrostatic contribution to the potential energy and constant hydrophobicity, we observed no statistically significant difference in the critical temperature of FUS (with respect to the normal HPS + cation–π enhanced model); suggesting that this combination of parameters now underestimates the relative electrostatic contribution to the potential energy for FUS. We thus investigated the modulation of the phase diagram of full FUS in the HPS + cation–π enhanced model versus the relative electrostatic contribution to the potential energy by multiplying the Coulomb interaction by a parameter χ = 0, 1, 2, and 4. We found qualitatively similar phase diagrams for χ = 0, 1 and 2, and a 4% increase in the critical temperature for FUS with χ = 4; suggesting that in the HPS + cation–π enhanced model with χ = 0, 1 and 2 electrostatics still do not play a significant role in the phase behavior of FUS. Hence, to mimic low salt conditions, we increased the electrostatic contribution to the potential energy by a factor of four (χ = 4) and used this as our reference model. With this reparameterization, we recomputed the phase diagrams of full FUS and its PLD at low salt, and obtained a convincingly higher critical point for the full FUS (~15%) with respect to that of the PLD, in qualitative agreement with experimental observations15,93. Based on the salt-dependent trends from our PMFs, we approximate the moderate salt regime (1.5–3 M NaCl) by scaling down the strength of electrostatic interactions with respect to our reference model (i.e., we set χ = 2), and the high-salt regime (>3 M NaCl) by setting χ = 1 and increasing the hydrophobic contribution by 10–30%.
The average number of protein contacts within phase-separated condensates were calculated using the MDAnalysis Python library122,123. Amino acids in two different proteins are in contact if they are within a cutoff distance of 0.65 nm of each other. Using this criterion, we estimated the frequency of contacts between the different domains of FUS (see Supplementary Fig. 4).
This was a retrospective study of patients that underwent puncture and recanalization of the SVC between January 2016 and December 2017 at our hospital. Sharp recanalization was performed using the RUPS-100 system. The patients were followed for 12 mo. The main outcomes were the patency rate of SVC and arteriovenous fistula flow during dialysis.
This was a case series of patients that underwent puncture and recanalization of the SVC between January 2016 and December 2017 at the Interventional Department of our hospital. The study was approved by the ethics committee of our hospital. The need for individual consent was waived by the committee.

The inclusion criteria were: (1) > 18 years of age; (2) Was undergoing autologous AVF/AVG dialysis for > 3 mo with regular dialysis three times a week and 4 h each time; (3) At least one symptom of SVC stenosis or occlusion[5-7]: (a) Facial and neck swelling; (b) Swelling and pain of the upper limb at the side of the internal AVF or bilateral upper limbs, skin pigmentation, ulceration and dysfunction; (c) Establishment of collateral circulation around the shoulders and chest wall; (d) Internal AVF murmur or change of pulse; and (e) Increased venous pressure during hemodialysis, venous blood flow ≥ 400 mL/min and difficulty of compression hemostasis at the puncture point of the internal fistula after dialysis; (4) Color Doppler ultrasound showed that the diameter of the internal fistula vessel was normal, and enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest suggested complete occlusion of the SVC; (5) Failure to enter the original channel when trying to recanalize the obstructed segments; and (6) Follow-up > 3 mo.

The exclusion criteria were: (1) Severe heart, liver or brain diseases; (2) Malignant SVC obstruction syndrome; (3) Combined with severe infection; (4) Loss to follow-up after surgery; or (5) Patients could not cooperate due to mental health problems.
Under local anesthesia, angiography was performed to evaluate the conditions of fistula inflow and outflow tract and central venous conditions by anterograde puncture of the outflow tract vein use a 21-G puncture needle. Then conventional catheter and guidewire technique was used to attempt recanalization. If failed, sharp recanalization was performed. Under the guidance of anteroposterior and lateral digital subtraction angiography and DynaCT (Siemens, Erlangen, Germany), a 21-G needle (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, United States) was used to puncture the brachiocephalic vein before a 0.035-inch Safe-TJ guidewire (Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) and a 6Fr or 7Fr vascular sheath (Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) were placed in the brachiocephalic vein. After that, a pigtail catheter (Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) was introduced to measure venous pressure at the distal end of the obstructed segment before the RUPS-100 system (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, United States) was placed in the brachiocephalic vein to perform puncture. The vertebral artery catheter was guided through the femoral vein access to the proximal end of the obstruction as the puncture guiding point. After identifying successful puncture, 0.035-inch guidewire and puncture needle catheter were introduced into the right atrium. Afterwards 8-12 mm balloon (Bard Peripheral Vascular, Inc., Tempe, AZ, United States) and 8-13.5 mm covered stent (Bard Peripheral Vascular, Inc., Tempe, AZ, United States) were introduced into the obstructed segment to reconstruct the inferior vena cava blood flow. The pressure at the distal end of the obstruction was measured again. If there were no abnormalities and no hemorrhagic complications, then low molecular weight heparin sodium and clopidogrel tablets were used for anticoagulation. To prevent the occurrence of pericardial tamponade, mediastinal hematoma and other serious complications caused by intraoperative hemorrhea, no routine anticoagulation treatment was used during the operation.
Technical success was defined as the diameter of the stenosis segment of the obstructed segment after percutaneous transluminal stenting (PTS) was not less than 50% of the diameter of the adjacent normal vessel[8]. Clinical success was defined as the successful use of internal AVF to complete more than once hemodialysis after surgery[9]. Early failure rate was defined as the guidewire or dilated balloon during the first PTS could not pass the affected segment of the blood vessels or ≥ 30% of vessels showed restenosis within 30 d after PTS[8]. The first patency time was defined as the time after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and PTS to a second intervention[10].

Follow-up was censored on December 31, 2018. The patients were followed at 24 h and at 3, 6, 9 and 12 mo after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty/PTS. The patency rate of the SVC and monitoring of the AVF flow during dialysis were evaluated. The long-term outcomes were: (1) AVF flow < 200 mL/min; (2) AVG < 180 mL/min; (3) Patient died; or (4) Patient underwent balloon dilatation of SVC for a second time.
SPSS 22.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY, United States) was used for data analysis. Continuous data were presented as mean ± SD. The paired t test was used to analyze the continuous variables before/after surgery. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to analyze the patency time of the SVC after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.
The complete details of the entire study design and procedures involved were in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Medicine Zhejiang University, China. Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects before blood sampling. The methods used were carried out in accordance with approved guidelines and regulations.

Blood was drawn into regular bottles in the morning from newly diagnosed TB patient at three time points (before anti-TB therapy, after the intensive phase, and upon cure) between November 2013 and November 2014 at the Sixth Hospital of Shaoxing and the First Hospital of Jiaxing. Pulmonary TB patients were diagnosed according to the diagnostic criteria of the Ministry of Health, China43. All patients met one of the following pulmonary TB diagnostic criteria: (1) a positive sputum examination (smear or culture); (2) a negative sputum examination and a chest X-ray and CT revealing evidence typical of active TB; (3) a pathological diagnosis of TB in lung specimens; (4) suspected pulmonary TB after clinical follow-up and X-ray observations after excluding other lung diseases; and (5) clinical elimination of other causes of pleural effusion and a diagnosis of tuberculosis pleurisy. We recruited both smear positive and negative patients. Standard TB therapy consists of rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol for the first 2 months followed by rifampin and isoniazid for an additional 4 to 6 months2. Patients with extra-pulmonary TB, malignancies, chronic disease, autoimmune diseases, or HIV infection were not included in the study. Fasting blood samples were drawn from healthy controls at the Zhejiang Hospital. The samples were stored at −80 °C for further analysis. Data including age, gender and clinical examination findings of TB patients and controls were collated into databases separately by different time points. In total, 122 untreated TB patients, 91 2-month treated TB patients, 59 cured TB patients, and 122 healthy controls were enrolled in the study.

A total of 57 untreated TB subjects (33 males, 24 females; aged 18–64 years; mean age 38.03 ± 14.94 years), 53 2-month treated TB subjects (27 males, 26 females; aged 18–65 years; mean age 35.55 ± 14.66 years), 59 cured TB subjects (37 males, 22 females; aged 18–75 years; mean age 40.97 ± 15.55 years), and 60 healthy subjects (35 males, 25 females; aged 24–73 years; mean age 41.55 ± 13.16 years) underwent ELISA testing (Supplementary Table S2).
To increase the precision and accuracy of the data in the proteomics study44, equal amounts of 10 different samples were mixed to produce a sample group. In addition, 10 samples were randomly divided into two pools as biological replicates. Then, iTRAQ-labeled sample pools were generated.

High-abundance serum proteins, such as albumin, IgG, and haptoglobin, were removed using the Human 14 Multiple Affinity Removal System (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA). Next, the proteins were concentrated and desalted14. A total of 100 μg of protein from each group were soaked in ice-cold acetone and then centrifuged. The subsidence samples were reduced and blocked. The samples were then digested with trypsin at 37°C overnight. Finally, iTRAQ reagents (Applied Biosystems, Foster city, CA, USA) were labeled as follows: the control group, iTRAQ reagent 113, 117; the untreated smear-positive pulmonary TB group, iTRAQ reagent 114, 118; and the cured pulmonary TB group, iTRAQ reagent 115, 119. The six sample groups were mixed, desalted, and dried. The iTRAQ-labeled peptides were separated using a polysulfoethyl column (2.1 × 100 mm, 5 μm, 200 Ǻ; Nest Group, Inc., Southborough, MA, USA) with strong cation exchange (SCX) chromatography45. A total of ten SCX components were collected, concentrated, and dissolved. Samples were subsequently loaded onto the ZORBAX 300SB-C18 column (5 μm, 200 Ǻ, 0.1 × 150 mm; Microm, Auburn, CA, USA). The components produced by SCX chromatography were subjected to MS analysis twice. The ratio of the peak area of the iTRAQ reporter ion reflected the relative abundance of the peptide and protein46,47. Protein identification and quantification were performed using the ProteinPilotTM version 4.2 software (Applied Biosystems). The ProGroup algorithm was used to identify peptides. MS/MS data were searched against the Human International Protein Index database (version 3.87) with parameter settings as described previously14,46,47. To reduce false positive results, a strict cutoff for protein identification was applied with the unused ProtScore >1.3 and at least one peptide with a 95% confidence limit48,49. The protein expression ratio between the two groups (<0.60 or >1.50) was considered significant. The cellular component, molecular function, and biological process were analyzed by the Gene Ontology database, whereas KEGG pathway analysis was performed using the KEGG database (false discovery rate <1.00%). The protein–protein network was analyzed by STRING software (http://string-db.org/).
The albumin human ELISA kit (Abcam, Cambridge, MA, USA; SwissProt: P02768), the lipoprotein A (APOA, LPA) human ELISA kit (Abcam, Cambridge, MA, USA; SwissProt: P08519), the human rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor 2 (ARHGDIB) ELISA kit (Cusabio Biotech. Co., LTD, China; SwissProt: P52566), the complement C3 human ELISA kit (Abcam, Cambridge, MA, USA; SwissProt: P01024), and the human Ficolin-2 (FCN2) ELISA kit (Cusabio Biotech. Co., LTD, China; SwissProt: Q15485) were used to detect protein levels in the serum. The protein concentration of 57 untreated TB patients, 53 2-month treated TB patients, 59 cured TB patients and 60 healthy controls were measured according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Serum samples were diluted with dilution factors of 1:10,000, 1:800, 1:4,000, and 1:20,000 for ALB, C3, FCN2, and LPA, respectively. ELISAs were performed according to the instructions of each kit.
Parametric data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation (SD), whereas nonparametric data are presented as the median ± interquartile range (IQR). P-values < 0.05 are considered statistically significant by the SPSS software (version 16.0, Chicago, IL). The parametric data were tested using the chi-square test for the composition ratios and t-tests and one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) for means. Nonparametric analysis was performed using the Mann–Whitney U-test for two groups and the Kruskal-Wallis H-test for three or more groups. The test for linear trends was performed to examine the trend of protein expression during treatment, whereas Spearman’s correlation method was performed to determine the association between two different parameters. For each protein, a ROC curve was generated. During model construction, the diagnostic score of untreated TB patients was set as 0, whereas that of cured TB patients was set as 1. In the other model, the score of sputum-positive patients were 1, and the score of sputum-negative patients were 0. To increase the diagnostic accuracy of the combined serum proteins, multiple logistic regression analysis was performed. ROC curves and logistic regression models were calculated using MedCalc Software (Version 12.4.2.0, Belgium).
Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle’s medium (DMEM), fetal bovine serum (FBS), sodium pyruvate, and penicillin-streptomycin-neomycin were obtained from GIBCO BRL., (Carlsbad, CA). Antibodies against MMP-2, MMP-9, uPA, β-actin, and occluding were obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc., (Dallas, TX). Antibodies against Slug, Snail, Twist, smad2, smad3, phos-smad2 (Ser465/467), phos-smad3(Ser423/425), β-catenin, phos-β-catenin, GSK3β, Phos-GSK3β(Ser9), E-cadherin, N-cadherin, vimentin, and MT1-MMP were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology, (Danvers, MA). All other chemicals were of the highest grade commercially available and supplied either by Merck (Darmstadt, Germany) or Sigma (St. Louis, MO). Antrodin C (ADC) was kindly provided by Taiwan Leader Biotech Corp., Taiwan.
Human breast carcinoma (MCF-7) cell line was obtained from American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA) and cultured in DMEM/high glucose, 10% FBS, 1% sodium pyruvate, and 1% penicillin/streptomycin in a 37°C humidified incubator supplemented with 5% CO2. Cells were maintained in serum-free DMEM/high glucose for 24 h, followed by treatment with or without ADC (5–20 μM) for 2 h and 20 ng/mL of TGF-β1 (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN) for 0.5–48 h
The effect of ADC on MCF-7 cell viability was determined by 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5, -diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) colorimetric assay. MCF-7 cells at a density of (2× 104 cells/well) were seeded in a 96-well cell culture plate, pre-incubated with ADC (5–40 μM) in the presence or absence of TGF-β1 (20 ng/mL) for 48 h. After treatment, the cells were incubated with 200 μL of 0.5 mg/mL MTT in DMEM for 2 h. Culture supernatant was then removed and re-suspended with 200 μL of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) to dissolve the MTT formazan, and the absorbance was measured at 570 nm using ELISA micro-plate reader (Bio-Tek Instruments, Winooski, VT). The effect of ADC on cell viability was assessed as the percent of viable cells compared with the vehicle-treated control cells, which were arbitrarily assigned a viability of 100%. The assay was performed in triplicate at each concentration.
MCF-7 cells (1 × 106 cells/dish in 6-cm dish) were pre-treated with ADC (5–20 μM) for 2 h, and then incubated with TGF-β1 for the indicated time points. After treatment, the cells were detached, washed once in cold PBS, lysed by either mammalian protein extraction reagent or nuclear and cytoplasmic extraction reagent kits (Pierce Biotechnology, Rockford, IL). Protein concentrations were determined using Bio-Rad protein assay reagent (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). Equal amount of protein extracts were reconstituted in sample buffer (0.062 M Tris-HCl [pH 6.8], 2% SDS, 10% glycerol and 5% β-mercaptoethanol), and the mixture was boiled for 5 min at 94°C. Denatured protein samples were separated by 8–15% SDS-PAGE, followed by transfer onto PVDF membranes overnight. The membranes were blocked with 0.1% Tween-20 in Tris-buffered saline containing 5% non-fat dry milk for 30 min at room temperature and then reacted with primary antibodies for 2 h. They were then incubated with a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit or anti-mouse antibody for 2 h. The blots were detected by using VL Chemi-Smart 3000 (Viogene-Biotek, Sunnyvale, CA) with enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) western blotting reagent (Millipore, Billerica, MA).
Intercellular MMPs activity was determined by zymography. Briefly, MCF-7 cells were cultured in 6-cm dish at a density of 5 × 105 cells/dish. Then, the cells were pre-treated with or without ADC (5–20 μM) for 2 h, and then incubated with TGF-β1 for 48 h. The culture supernatant was collected, and the protein content in culture media was determined by Bio-Rad protein assay reagent using BSA as a standard. An equal amount of culture samples were subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE, which contains gelatin or casein (1 mg/mL). After electrophoresis, the gels were washed and incubated with re-nature buffer (2.5% Triton-X) for 1 h, and then incubated with developing buffer for overnight at 37°C. After overnight incubation, the bands were incubated with 0.5% Coomassie Brilliant Blue for 30 min. After appeared as white bands against a blue background with intensity in proportion to the MMPs activity. The intensities of bands were visualized by ImageQuant LAS 4000 mini (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences AB, Sweden).
MCF-7 cells at a density of 2 × 104 cells/well were cultured in an 8-well glass Nunc Lab-Tek chamber slide (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) and pretreated with or without various concentrations of ADC (5–20 μM) for 2 h, and then incubated with or without TGF-β1 (20 ng/mL) for 1 h. After treatment, the culture media was removed and the cells were fixed in 2% paraformaldehyde for 15 minutes, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100 for 10 minutes, washed and blocked with 10% FBS in PBS, and then incubated for 2 h with anti-β-catenin or anti-phospho-Smad2/3 primary antibodies in 1.5% FBS. The cells were then incubated with the fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) or tetramethylrhodamine (TRITC)-conjugated secondary antibody for another 1 hour in 6% BSA. Next, the nucleus were stained with 1 μg/mL 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) for 5 minutes, washed with phosphate buffer saline (PBS), and visualized using a confocal microscope at 200 × magnification.
The phenotypic changes of MCF-7 cells were determined by phase contrast microscopy. MCF-7 cells were pre-treated with ADC (5–20 μM) for 2 h, and then incubated with TGF-β1 for 48 h. The morphological changes were visualized by phase contrast microscopy. The images were collected using Motic inverted microscope (Motic Instruments Inc, Canada).
MCF-7 cells at a density of 2 × 104 cells/well were cultured in an 8-well glass Nunc Lab-Tek chamber slide (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) and pretreated with or without various concentrations of ADC (5–20 μM) for 2 h, and then incubated with or without TGF-β1 (20 ng/mL) for 24 hours. After incubation, cells were rinsed quickly in PBS for 2 times, fixed in freshly prepared 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS for 15 min at room temperature, permiabilized with Triton X-100 in PBS for 10 min, and incubated with 6% bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 1 h. Then the cells were washed with PBS for 3 times and incubated with Alexa Flour 488 Phalloidin for 15 min to stain for F-actin and then washed with PBS. Nuclear staining was performed with DAPI. Cells on slides were mounted onto cover slip with glycerol. Cells were imaged with a laser scanning microscope at 200 × magnification.
MCF-7 cells were transfected with control vector pCNA3 or pGL3-SBE-4-Luc or TOP-flash or FOP-flash or pCMV-β-Gal (Upstate Biotechnology, Charlottesvilla, VA) reporter gene plasmids using Lipofectamine 2000 (Invitrogen) in serum- and antibiotics-free DMEM. After 6 h, medium was changed to DMEM supplemented with antibiotics and 10% FBS, in which cells were grown for another 18 h. Then the cells were pre-treated with ADC (5–20 μM) for 2 h, and then incubated with TGF-β1 for 3 h. After incubation, cells were harvested and assayed for luciferase activity using a commercially available kit (Promega, Madison, WI). The luciferase activity was measured using luminescence ELISA micro-plate reader (Bio-Tek Instruments) and the luciferase activity was normalized with β-galactosidase activity.
MCF-7 cells (1 × 105 cells/well) were seeded into a 12-well culture plate with silicon cell-free gap insert (ibidi GmbH, Martinsried, Germany). After monolayer formation, the insert was removed, washed with PBS, and then the cells were pre-incubated with ADC (5 and 20 μM) for 2 h, and then incubated with or without TGF-β1 for 48 h. The migrated cells were photographed (100 ×magnification) at 0 and 48 h to monitor the migration of cells into the wounded area, and the closure of the wounded area was calculated.
The matrigel invasion assay was performed in 24-well trans-well culture plates. Briefly, 10 μL (0.5 mg/mL) BD Matrigel Basement Membrane Matrix (BD Bioscience, Los Angeles, CA) was applied to 8-μm polycarbonate membrane filters, 1 × 105 cells were seeded to the matrigel-coated filters in 200 μL of serum-free medium containing various concentrations of ADC (5–20 μM) in triplicate. The bottom chamber of the apparatus contained 750 μL of complete growth medium. Cells were allowed to migrate for 48 h at 37°C. After 48 h incubation, the medium was aspirated, and the non-invading cells on the top surface of the membrane were removed with a cotton swab. The invasive cells on the bottom side of the membrane were fixed in cold methanol for 15 min and washed 3 times with PBS. The cells were stained with Giemsa stain solution and then de-stained with PBS. Images were obtained using an optical microscope (200 ×magnification), and invading cells were quantified by manual counting.
Data are expressed as means ± SD. The significance of differences between group means were tested using Student’s t-test for single comparisons. P Values of < 0.05*, < 0.01**, and < 0.001*** were considered significant for sample versus control. A P value of < 0.001ø was considered significant for control versus TGF-β1 alone.
B6CBA mice were obtained from Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME, USA). The animals were housed with access to food and water ad libitum in a colony room kept at 19–22 °C and 40–60% humidity, under a 12:12-h light/dark cycle. Experiments were carried out according to the European regulation (2010/63/UE) for the care and use of laboratory animals.
We compared the control (Ctr) Ctr-Q33, a hiPSC line, with 33 CAG repeats (generous gift from C. N. Svendsen, Cedar Sinai, Los Angeles, CA; USA: CS83iCTR-33nxx) and GENEA (GEN)-Q18, an ESC line, with 15/18 CAGs (GENEA019; derived from GENEA Biocells; Australia; hPSCreg Name: GENEAe020-A). All cells were regularly tested for mycoplasma contamination and karyotype normality. Human cells are growth in a 37 °C incubator with a humidified atmosphere and 5% CO2. G-band karyotypes were made in an external centre, Ambar-Anàlisis Mèdicas (Barcelona, Spain).
GEN-Q18 hESC was cultured in feeder-free matrigel coated 6-well plates in 2.5 ml of Genea M2 Medium (MED-02–250 ml; 17G13CCMO23; Genea Biocells), a serum-free fully-defined medium containing bovine serum albumin (BSA), bFGF, Activin A and growth factors. Medium was changed every 2 days and daily in the 2 days before passaging due to the higher cell confluency.

After a minimum of 4 passages in Genea M2 medium, GEN-Q18 hESC was adapted and expanded in mTESR1 medium as we describe below.
All hPSCs were cultured on matrigel (354230; Corning Inc., NY, USA) feeder-free coated 6-well plates in 2 ml of serum-free defined mTeSR1 medium which contains recombinant human bFGF and recombinant human TGFβ (complete mTeSR1: mTeSR1 basal medium (05850) and mTeSR1 supplemented 5x (05852); StemCell Technologies Inc., MA, USA). Medium was daily changes (every 24 h ± 2).
HPSC cultures were passaged when cell confluence reached 70–80% (twice per week). Cells were gently washed twice with 2 ml of Dulbecco’s (D)-phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) without calcium and magnesium (D-PBS−/−, 14,190–250; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., MA, USA) and incubated for 20–25 min with dispase in DMEM/F12 (07923; Stem cell Technologies, Cambridge, UK) with 10 μM of ROCK inhibitor (Y-27632; EVOTEC Ltd. Milton, UK) at 37 °C. Then, dispase was removed and cells were harvested in DMEM/F12 (Stem cell Technologies) media by pipetting up and down using a 5-ml pipette to avoid single-cell desegregation. Cells were centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 3 min and resuspended with warm and fresh Complete-mTeSR1 medium with 10 μm of ROCK inhibitor (Abcam Inc.) at the desired dilution. Then, cell suspension was seeded on tempered matrigel coated 6-well plates. Differentiated colonies were removed manually using a stereotypic microscope and a 10-ml sterile tip prior passaging.
A schematic illustration of the differentiation protocol is shown in Fig. 1. At 60–70% of cell confluence, hPSC cultures were washed 3 times with 2 ml of D-PBS with calcium and magnesium (PBS+/+, 14040-091; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., MA, USA). The medium was then replaced by neural induction SLI medium from 0 DIV until 8 DIV (SLI culture media: Advanced DMEM/F-12(1X) (12634-010; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) with 2 mM of GlutaMax™ 100x (35050-038, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.), 1% penicillin/streptomycin (P/S; 15140122; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., MA, USA); 10 μM SB 431542 (SB; 447536; EVOTEC Ltd. Milton, UK.); 1 μM LDN 193189 (396388; EVOTEC Ltd. Milton, UK); 1.5 μM IWR1 (476979; EVOTEC Ltd. Milton, UK), and 2% B27-supplemented without RA (50X) (12587-010; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.)).
At 4 DIV, confluent cultures were treated with 10 μM of ROCK inhibitor (Abcam Inc.) for 1 h, washed twice with 2 ml of PBS without calcium and magnesium (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.), incubated with accutase (StemPro A11105; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) for 7 min for cell dissociation and passaged onto matrigel-coated plates, with a split ratio of 1:2. On 8 DIV, cultures were passaged 1:2 and cultured in LI medium until 15 DIV (LI culture media: Advanced DMEM/F-12(1X) (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) with 2 mM of GlutaMax ™ 100x (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.), 1% P/S (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.), 200 nM LDN 193189, 1.5 μM IWR1 and 2% B27-supplemented without RA (50X) (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.)).

Cultures received daily medium changes of 2 ml except from DIV 5 to DIV 7 (both included), when 4 ml of fresh medium were added. At 16 DIV, NPCs were washed 3 times in PBS−/− (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.), dissociated with accutase for 5 min and plated with a population of 8 × 104 cells in 12-mm-diameter glass coverslips (treated and coated). Prior to use, coverslips were cleaned with 70% nitric acid, washed 5 times with deionized water and one time with absolute ethanol (1009832500; CAS 64-17-5; MERCK Millipore, Darmstadt, Germany) and oven sterilized at 180 °C o.n. CSs were coated first with 100 μg/ml poly-D-lysine (P0899-100 mg; Sigma-Aldrich) in borate buffer (15663; Fluka-Sigma-Aldrich Chemie GmbH; Steinheim, Germany) and with matrigel. Cells were differentiated for additional 21 DIVs in SCM1/2 media (SCM1 from 16 DIV until 23 DIV and SCM2 from 23 DIV until 37 DIV changed every 2–3 days) (SCM1 culture media (changed at 16 DIV, 18 DIV and 21 DIV): Advanced DMEM/F-12 (1X) (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) with 2 mM of GlutaMax™ 100x (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.); 1% P/S (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.); 2% B27-supplemented (50X) (17504-044; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.); 2 μM PD 0332991 (482855; EVOTEC Ltd. Milton, UK); 10 μM DAPT (396736; EVOTEC Ltd. Milton, UK); 0.6 mM CaCl2 (to give 1.8 mM final complete medium; MERCK, CAT, Spain), 200 μM ascorbic acid (AA; A4544-100G; Sigma-Aldrich, Madrid, Spain), 10 ng/ml hBDNF (450-02; Peprotech Inc., NJ, USA); 10 μM Forskolin (FK,000087; EVOTEC Ltd.), 3 μM CHIR 99021 (CH; 401952; EVOTEC Ltd. Milton, UK) and 300 μM GABA (0.44; Tocris Cookson Inc., MO, USA)). (SCM2 culture media: (1:1) of Advanced DMEM/F-12 (1X) (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) with 2 mM of GlutaMax™ 100x (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.): Neurobasal A (10888-022; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.); 1% P/S (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.), 2% B27-supplemented (50X) (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.); 2 μM PD (EVOTEC Ltd.); 3 μM CH (EVOTEC Ltd.); 0.3 mM CaCl2 (to give 1.8 mM final complete medium MERCK); 200 μM AA (Sigma) and 10 ng/ml hBDNF (Peprotech Inc.)).
To track the cells after transplants, Ctr-Q33 hiPSC line was transduced with green fluorescent protein (GFP) lentivirus under the control of the constitutive elongation factor alpha (EF1-α) promoter during WiCell maintenance. Lentivirus was incubated for 2 h at 37 °C. Cultures were grown and maintained in WiCell procedure until cell sorting by FACS (fluorescence-activated cell sorting). After three passages, transfected cells were sorted by the expression of GFP. Sorted cells were grown and maintained in WiCell procedure and adapted and expanded to mTesR1 medium after karyotyping test.

Ctr3-Q33-GFP NPCs at 16 DIV were harvested and resuspended in D-PBS−/− (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.). P (postnatal day) 2 neonatal mice were anaesthetised by hypothermia and placed on ice until cessation of movement. Unilateral striatal injections were performed using a stereotaxic apparatus (Davis Kopf Instruments, Tujunga, CA, USA) and a 10-μl Hamilton syringe with a 33-gauge needle (Hamilton, Reno, NV), setting the following coordinates (millimetres): AP, + 2.3, L, + 1.4 from lambda and dorsoventral, − 1.8 from dura. Every animal received 15,000 cells diluted in 1 μl of D-PBS−/− (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.). Upon completion of stereotaxic surgery, pups were warmed, monitored for 1 h to ensure recovery and then returned to the housing facility.
HPSC-derived cultures were fixed for 20 min at room temperature (r.t.) with 200 μl/ 24-well of 4% paraformaldehyde solution (P/0840/53; Fisher Scientific UK Limited, Leicestershire, UK) and washed three times with 1x PBS and stored at 4 °C in 500 μl/ 24-well with 0.03% sodium-azide (71289; Fluka-Sigma-Aldrich) until use. For immunolabelling, samples were blocked and permeabilized for 45 min at r.t. with PTB solution (PBS 1x with 0.3% Triton X-100 (T8532; Sigma-Aldrich Quimica SL., Madrid, Spain), 0.03% sodium-azide, 1% BSA (A9647-1006; Sigma-Aldrich, Madrid, Spain) and 5% normal goat serum (NGS; S-1000; Vector Laboratories Ltd., UK) and/or 5% donkey serum (NDS; 017-000-121; Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories Inc.; PA, USA)), before being incubated overnight (o.n.) at 4 °C with the appropriate primary antibodies (Antibody references and dilutions are defined in Table ​Table1).1). After o.n. incubation, primary antibodies were removed, and samples were washed 3 times for 10 min with PBS 1x upon the tilt table. Then, cells were incubated for 1–2 h at RT in darkness with fluorophore-conjugated secondary antibodies (References and dilutions are detailed in Table ​Table1).1). After three washes of 10 min with PBS 1x, cells were counterstained with nuclear staining with DAPI 300 nM (D1306; Thermo Fisher Scientific). Coverslips were mounted in Fluoromount-G media (0100-01; Southern Biotech, AL, USA) and imaged using an Olympus IX71 inverted microscope equipped with an Orca Flash 4.0 camera (C11440-22CU, Hamamatsu Photonics France sucursal España, Barcelona, Spain) or the Leica SP5 TCS two-photon laser scanning confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany).
Animals were deeply anaesthetised with pentobarbital and intracardially perfused with PBS 1x and a 4% paraformaldehyde solution (P/0840/53; Fisher Scientific UK Limited, Leicestershire, UK) in 0.1 M sodium phosphate (CAS 7601-54-9; Sigma-Aldrich, Madrid, Spain). Brains were removed and post-fixed o.n. in the same solution, washed three times with PBS 1x, cryoprotected with 30% sucrose (CAS 57-50-1; Sigma-Aldrich, Madrid, Spain) in PBS 1x and frozen in dry-ice cooled methylbutane (CAS 78-78-4; Sigma-Aldrich, Madrid, Spain). Serial coronal sections (20 μm) of the brain were obtained using a cryostat (Microm 560 M, Thermo Fisher). Tissue was first incubated with a blocking solution containing PBS 1x, 0.3% Triton X-100 (Sigma-Aldrich Quimica SL.) and 5% normal horse serum (31874; Thermo Scientific, IL, USA) for 2 h at RT. Brain sections were then incubated o.n. at 4 °C with different primary antibodies diluted in the blocking solution (see Table ​Table1).1). After three washes with PBS 1x, tissue was incubated for 1 h and a half at RT with specific fluorophore-conjugated secondary antibodies. Images were acquired with a Leica SP5 TCS two-photon laser scanning confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems).
For transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies, samples were fixed with a solution of 2% PFA/0.5% glutaraldehyde in 0.1-M phosphate buffer, post-fixed with 1% osmium tetroxide, dehydrated and embedded in epoxy resin. Semi-thin sections (1 μm) were stained with methylene blue. Ultra-thin sections (70 nm) were immunolabelled with primary antibody, followed by incubation with a secondary antibody conjugated with 10 nm electron-dense colloidal gold (Aurion, Electron Microscopy Sciences). GFP antibody (Abcam) was used for detecting human cells. Images were acquired with a JEOL 1010 transmission electron microscope equipped with a CCD Orius camera (Gatan)
HPSC-derived NPC populations at 16 DIV were quantified using an open-access CellProfiler software (BROAD institute, MA, USA). Nineteen random images, corresponding to 3% of a 24-well plate (1.92 cm2) culture, were taken with the epifluorescence Leica AF600 microscope (Leica Microsystems). Images were loaded in a customized pipeline with an initial nuclei detection by DAPI immunofluorescence and then the second channel, green, and the third channel, red, immunolabelled detected-nuclei counts.
HPSC-derived neuronal cell types at 23 DIV and 37 DIV were manually counted using a nonbiased computer-assisted stereological toolbox (CAST) program (Olympus America Inc., NY, USA). We counted the 3% of a 12-mm-diameter coverslip (1.2 cm2) culture area
Graft size was calculated by delineating the outer perimeter of GFP+ cells in eight transplanted mice. The volume occupied by the graft core was estimated through extrapolation of the area quantified in sections spaced 120 μm apart, by using an Olympus optical microscope and CAST stereology software. For determining the neuronal fate of transplanted cells, immunofluorescence images were acquired with a TCS SP5 confocal microscope (Leica) and manually counted using the ImageJ and CAST software. Immunolabelled cells in the regions of interest were quantified using high intensity projection of Z stacked images on five evenly-spaced coronal sections from six transplanted mice at each time point.
Sixteen DIV NPCs seeded upon 12-mm-diameter glass coverslips were differentiated into neurons and monitored for their spontaneous dynamics at 37 DIV through multi-neuron fluorescence calcium imaging. This technique enabled the simultaneous, large population tracking of neuronal firing by the binding of Ca2+ ions to a fluorescent indicator. Recordings were performed in artificial cerebrospinal fluid solution (aCSF) (pH 7.4) composed by 128 mM NaCl, 4 mM KCl, 1 mM CaCl2, 1 mM MgCl2, 45 mM sucrose, 10 mM glucose and 0.01 M HEPES. Fluo4-acetoxymethyl ester (AM) (494/506 nm) (F14201; Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) fluorescent Ca2+ sensitive indicator was used in all measurements. Prior to imaging, cultures were placed in a 35-mm-diameter glass bottom chamber (P35G-0-14-C, MatTek Corporation, MA, USA) that contained 2 μM of Fluo4-AM in a total volume of 2 ml of aCSF, and gently incubated on an orbital shaker in darkness for 15 min at RT. Cultures were then washed twice with fresh aCSF and stabilized for 5 min at 37 °C with 4 ml of fresh aCSF. The recording chamber was mounted on a Zeiss inverted microscope equipped with an Orca Flash 2.8 CMOS camera (Hamamatsu Photonics) and a light source for fluorescence. Image sequences of neuronal activity were acquired for 10 min at RT, with a size of 960 × 720 pixels, and a speed of 20 frames per second (FPS). Microscope settings combined a × 5 objective with a × 0.63 optical zoom, providing a spatial resolution of 4.40 μm/pixel and a field of view (FOV) of 4.2 × 3.2 mm2 that contained 3000–4000 cells. Representative bright field and fluorescence images for a particular experiment are provided in Fig. S9.

Neuronal Activity Analysis
Ca2+ imaging recordings were analysed with NETCAL [20], a custom-built software package run in MATLAB. For each experiment, about 1000–3000 neurons (soma regions) were automatically selected on the FOV of the culture based on the brightness of the neuronal soma. Each soma denoted a region of interest (ROI) spanning a square area 7 pixels wide (about 645 μm2). The fluorescence intensity of each ROI as a function of time, F*(t), was obtained by averaging the colour intensity across all pixels within the ROI at every frame. To reduce noise, fluorescence traces were smoothed out by applying a “moving average” filter 5 frames (250 ms) wide. Traces were next corrected for small drifts by subtracting a smoothed spline of the original signal. The spline was constructed by diving the original signal in blocks 25 s wide, and by connecting in a spline manner the average value within each block. The drift correction effectively removed large time-scale fluctuations while preserving neuronal firing traits and the original baseline fluorescence level (F0). Fluorescence signals were finally normalized as F(t) = 100(F*−F0)/F0 ≡ ∆F/F0 (%). Examples of characteristic fluorescence traces are provided in Fig. S9.

Neurons were separated in two groups (active or inactive) based on their fluorescence profiles by means of supervised machine learning algorithms. Briefly, several features of the fluorescence traces were first extracted by identifying their intervals of high activity. These intervals were set as the time spanned by the signal above a given threshold. Next, about 100 representative traces for each group were manually selected, and the rest were automatically assigned to the corresponding group through a boosting algorithm [21]. Finally, for each active neuron, spike trains were inferred through the “peeling algorithm” [22, 23]. For single-spike detection, we used a single-exponential model with a detection threshold of 0.8% ∆F/F0 and a decay time constant of tau = 1 s.

To describe the activity properties of neurons, we defined a set of nine neuronal activity features detailed in Fig. S10. These features include number of spikes (NS); firing rate (FR, spikes along time, Hz); inter-spike interval (ISI, s); standard deviation (SD) of ISI (s); number of bursts (B; defined as concatenated spikes with intervals smaller than 1 s); number of spikes within a burst; ISI inside a burst; inter-burst interval (IBI, s); and burst length (s).
The nine neuronal features obtained from the activity analysis were transformed into a new basis by principal component analysis (PCA) [24]. The PCA data was then split into 8 significant groups through a k-means clustering algorithm [25]. The compound set of features of each of the groups was then further analysed.
Total RNA was isolated along the neuronal differentiation using TRI Reagent (TR118; Molecular Research Center; Ohio, USA) following the manufacturers’ protocol. Ten microliters of total RNA at a concentration of 100–200 ng/μl (1 μg in total) for each sample were reverse-transcribed with random primers using the high-capacity RNA-to-cDNA Kit (4387406, Thermo Fisher Scientific). Ten microliters of retro-transcription cocktail (2 μl of 10× retrotranscription (RT) buffer, 2 μl of Random primers, 1 μl of dNTP mix; 1 μl MultiScribe reverse transcriptase) were added to each sample (20 μl total volume). After gentle mixing, the samples were incubated for 10 min at room temperature followed by 2 h at 37 °C, 10 min on ice and 10 min at 75 °C.
Open array analysis was performed as described elsewhere [19]. Complementary cDNAs from 0 DIV to 37 DIV hPSC-samples were loaded onto the custom openarrays and run as recommended by the manufacturer on the QuantStudio 12 K Flex Real-Time PCR system (Thermo Fisher Scientific) by Servei Veterinari de Genètica Molecular (Faculty of Veterinary, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain). We ran two openarrays, the so-called developmental openarray with 112 TaqMan probes (Thermo Fisher Scientific), and a second openarray called Ephys with 168 TaqMan probes [19]. Both openarrays specifically detected all isoforms of each gene that were selected from the literature, and included 6 housekeeping genes for the developmental (18S, B2M, HPRT1, HSP90AB1, RPL13A, UBC) and 10 housekeeping genes for the Ephys (18S, B2M, HPRT1, HSP90AB1, RPL13A, UBC, PAPOLA, ACTB, EIF2B1, TBP) that were used as reference genes. For data analysis, Ctr-Q33 and GEN-Q18 samples were ran and analysed separately. For each openarray, we took one random sample from 37 DIV as reference sample. Relative gene expression was calculated using the Expression Suite Software 1.03 (Life Technology, Barcelona, Spain). Relative quantity (RQ) minimum and maximum values (error bars) were calculated with a confidential level of 95%, using Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate to adjust P values. Maximum allowed threshold cycle Ct included in calculations is 30 and a quantitation cycle Cq confidence > 0.8. Error bars are presented in all graphs as standard error of the mean (SEM). Gene expression profile data are represented in graphics as RQ to 37 DIV.
Total protein extract was isolated from human tissue using TRI Reagent (T9424, Sigma-Aldrich, Madrid, Spain) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Total protein extracts were denatured using 1% SDS at 100 °C for 5 min. Sixteen microgram of each denatured sample was subjected to 12% SDS-PAGE and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (IPVH00010, Millipore, Barcelona, Spain) for 60 min at 1 mA/cm2. Membranes were incubated o.n. with primary antibodies (Ref. and dilution defined in Table ​Table1)1) in immunoblot buffer (TBS-T-5%M; Tris-buffered saline (TBS) containing 0.05% Tween-20 and 5% no-fat dry milk) at + 4 °C in agitation and 1 h at RT upon a tilt table with HRP secondary antibodies in TBS-T-5%M. For load control, anti-alpha actin (1:20,000) was incubated for 20 min at RT in TBS-T-5%. Membrane development was performed in TBS-T-5% BSA. Membranes were developed using the Luminata Classico or Forte Western HRP Substrate (WBLUC0100 and WBLUF0100, respectively, MERCK Millipore, Darmstadt, Germany) in Fuji Medical X-Ray Films (Super RX-N; Fujifilm Co., Tokyo, Japan).
For comparisons between 16 DIV Ctr-Q33 and GEN-Q18 NPCs, two-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s multiple comparison test was applied and values of P < 0.05 were considered statistically significant, *P < 0.05, **P < 0.005, ***P < 0.0005. Neuronal progenitor cells were represented as relative to total labelled nuclei or relative to PAX6 NPCs in double labelling. Error bars were presented in all graphs as standard error of the mean (SEM).

For comparisons between Ctr-Q33 and GEN-Q18 neuronal cell types at 23 DIV and 37 DIV, two-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s multiple comparison test was applied, *P < 0.05, **P < 0.005, ***P < 0.0005. Neuronal cell types were represented as relative to total labelled nuclei by DAPI immunofluorescence or relative to Map 2b. Error bars were presented in all graphs as SEM.

For gene expression comparisons along the differentiation from 0 DIV to 37 DIV, one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s multiple comparison test was applied. Relative to 0 DIV, *P < 0.05, **P < 0.01, ***P < 0.001; to DIV 8 + P < 0.05, ++ P < 0.01, +++ P < 0.001; 12 DIV # P < 0.05, ## P < 0.01, ### P < 0.001; to DIV 16 $$ P < 0.01, $$$ P < 0.001; to 23 DIV & P < 0.05, && P < 0.01 and &&& P < 0.001. Error bars were presented in all graphs as SEM. Gene expression profile data were represented in graphics as RQ to 37 DIV.

For firing and bursting feature comparisons between groups, G1 to G8 at 37 DIV, one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s multiple comparison test was applied. P < 0.05 *, P ≤ 0.01 ** and P ≤ 0.001 ***. P > 0.05. Data is summarized in Fig. S12 and grey boxes).

Colour matrices represented all possible comparisons on the diagonal (blue box; 0 DIV to 37 DIV) on which the statistical test was carried out for all the multiple comparisons. Non-expressing genes were indicated with grey boxes. Colour boxes for expressing genes with P < 0.05. Upregulated (red) and downregulated (green) genes were represented with increasing three colour-scale intensities for P ≤ 0.5, P ≤ 0.005 and P ≤ 0.0005, respectively.

Protein quantification of Ctr-Q33 and GEN-Q18 at DIV 0, DIV 23 and DIV 37 was calculated by relative quantity to alpha-actin band. One-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s multiple comparison test was applied and values of P < 0.05 were considered statistically significant. Relative to 0 DIV, *P < 0.05, **P < 0.005, ***P < 0.0005; to DIV 23 # P < 0.05, ## + P < 0.01, ### P < 0.001. Protein levels were represented in graphics as relative protein to alpha-actin and error bars as SEM.
The poly (allylamine hydrochloride), PAH, Mw 900,000 g/mol, and poly (sodium 4-styrene sulfonate), PSS, Mw 70,000 g/mol were purchased from Aldrich, dextran sulfate sodium salt MW 40,000 g/mol was purchased from AppliChem, CaCl2, and Na2CO3 from VWR, beta-carotene was supplied from Cayman Chemical Company (Ann Arbor, MI, USA), DMEM from Gibco.
The PEM capsules were built around a CaCO3 core, following a previously reported protocol [25] (with some minor changes). The core serves as template only and, at the end, after all polymer layers were deposited, it was solubilized with EDTA. For the formation of the CaCO3 template core, equal amounts (6 mL) of 0.33 M CaCl2 and Na2CO3 were mixed under stirring at room temperature. Subsequently, 7.5 mL dextran sulfate 5 mg/mL was added (dextran is efficient in solubilizing the CaCO3 core at the final step). The polyelectrolyte layers were built around the CaCO3 cores using alternating layers of positively charged poly (allylamine hydrochloride), PAH, and negatively charged poly (4-styrene sulfonate), PSS, 2 g/L, 10 mL, prepared in 0.5 M NaCl. Three washing cycles with water (centrifugation, removing supernatant, addition of water) were carried out after the formation of each polymer layer. In total, six polymer layers were formed, followed by the dissolution of the CaCO3 core using 10 mL EDTA solution 0.2 M, pH 5.5. Eight washing steps in water were performed after core dissolution, by centrifugation at 120 g, 8 min. The final structure of the obtained PEM capsules is PSS/PAH/PSS/PAH/PSS/PAH. To obtain the beta-carotene loaded microcapsules, first a stock solution of beta-carotene (5 mg/mL in tetrahydrofuran) was prepared. Desired amounts of solubilized beta-carotene were mixed with the dextran solution and added after the core formation step.
The beta-carotene encapsulation efficiency was quantified using an Agilent HPLC instrument coupled with a DAD detector (Agilent Tehnologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA), using a reversed phase EC 250/4.6 Nucleodur 300-5 C-18 column (250 × 4.6 mm), 5 µm (Macherey-Nagel, Germany). The mobile phase consisted of mixtures of acetonitrile: Water (9:1, v/v) with 0.25% triethylamine (A) and ethyl acetate with 0.25% triethylamine (B). The gradient started with 90% A at 0 min to 50% A at 10 min. The percentage of A decreased from 50% at 10 min to 10% A at 20 min. The flow rate was 1 mL/min and the chromatogram was recorded at 450 nm [26]. The HPLC peaks were identified and quantified based on a calibration curve registered using freshly prepared beta-carotene standard solutions (Cayman Chemical, Ann Harbor, MI, USA). In short, sampling was carried out after each single step in the PEM microcapsules synthesis (after core formation, after adding each polymer, after every single washing step, after adding EDTA). This resulted in a total of 30 samples. From each of these aqueous samples, beta-carotene was extracted and quantified.

In short, 1 mL of ethyl acetate was used to extract beta-carotene from each aqueous sample. After extraction, the organic phase was collected, the solvent was evaporated, and the dried samples were kept at freezing until the next day, when the beta-carotene was again solubilized in ethyl acetate and 20 μL of the solution was injected in the HPLC column. The solvent evaporation was a necessary step since we have observed partial degradation of beta-carotene upon overnight storage if the solvent was present in the samples. Taking into account the beta-carotene instability in atmospheric conditions, the stock solution was also quantified by HPLC to have a correct estimation of the total amount that could be encapsulated. The nonencapsulated beta-carotene was quantified by summing up beta-carotene that resulted from each washing step. The difference between the initial beta-carotene amount and the amount lost during the synthesis represents the encapsulated beta-carotene. The nonencapsulated beta-carotene was calculated from the calibration curve with the equation y = 0.3961x + 6.6094, R2 = 0.9918. For the stock solution, the equation y = 1.6793x – 3280.7, R2 = 0.995 was used.
The human retinal epithelial D407 cell line was kindly donated by Prof. em. Dr.Dr.h.c. Horst A. Diehl, University of Bremen. The cells were cultured in Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 100 U/mL penicillin, 100 mg/mL streptomycin, and 2.5 mg/mL amphotericin B. The cells were incubated at 37 °C, in 5% CO2 atmosphere, and 95% relative humidity. For the Raman mapping experiments the cells were grown on 35 mm sterile Petri dishes and seeded on MgF2 plates, as detailed in the section below.
3.5.1. Raman Spectroscopy and Mapping
The Raman spectra were recorded with a Renishaw inVia Reflex Raman Spectrometer (Renishaw, New Mills, UK), equipped with an upright Leica microscope, an 1800 lines/mm grating, a CCD detector, and an automated step motorize stage to raster scan the sample area during the mapping experiments. The spectra were recorded using the 532 nm excitation laser line. The spectral resolution was 4 cm−1. Prior to spectral acquisitions, the wavelength was calibrated using an internal Si standard. The laser power during measurement was adjusted to either 120, 6, or 1 mW. Laser power of 120 mW was used for spectral acquisitions on samples containing empty PEM capsules, while for beta-carotene loaded capsules, adjustment of laser power to 6 or 1 mW was needed in order to avoid degradation of the beta-carotene molecule, which is heat and light sensitive. Spectra preprocessing consisted of cosmic ray removal.

MgF2 plates were used as solid support for the samples. MgF2 is a suitable support for Raman analysis, due to its extreme low fluorescent background. To record the Raman spectra on the PEM microcapsules, a drop of aqueous dispersion containing the capsules was deposited onto MgF2 plates and allowed to dry at room temperature. The samples were further analyzed under the Olympus 100X objective. The Raman maps were recorded by raster scanning the desired sample areas with 1 acquisition and 2 s exposure in each point. For imaging the nonloaded capsules, a 0.5 μm step size and 60 mW laser power were used, and for the beta-carotene loaded capsules 1 μm step size and 6 mW laser power were chosen. All data processing was carried out using custom-built MATLAB R2019b (The MathWorks Inc., Natick, MA, USA) functions. Cosmic ray spikes were removed from each spectrum before processing. For the identification of various cell components, PCA was performed.

To record Raman spectra on D407 cells upon exposure to different formulations of PEM capsules, the cells were grown for 24 h on sterile Petri dishes of 35 mm diameter (1.2 × 105 cells seeded). The day after, the growth medium was replaced with PEM capsules diluted in the cell culture medium at a concentration of 10 capsules/cell, for another 24 h. Further, D407 cells were washed three times with phosphate buffer saline (PBS), detached from the Petri dishes using trypsin, centrifuged, and reseeded in Petri dishes with MgF2 plates inside. The PEM capsules treated cells were allowed to attach to the MgF2 plates for 24 h, followed by three times washing with PBS and cell fixation onto the plates. Cell fixation was carried out with 4% paraformaldehyde, at room temperature, for 20 min. After immobilization, the samples were again washed and stored in PBS buffer. The D407 cells exposed to PEM microcapsules were analyzed under the Olympus 60x water immersion objective. The maps were recorded with 2 μm step size, 1 s exposure time and 1 acquisition at each measuring point, and a laser power of 120 mW (samples exposed to nonloaded PEM capsules) or 6 mW (samples exposed to beta-carotene loaded PEM capsules).

3.5.2. Multivariate Data Analysis
Data processing, including PCA and cosmic ray removal was carried out using custom-built MATLAB functions (MathWorks, Natick, MA, USA). PCA is a statistical method which reduces the dimensionality of the data by transforming the coordinate system of the data (in this case all Raman spectra from each pixel) into a coordinate system with less dimensions, while keeping as much of the variance of the data set. Therefore, the output of PCA is a set of spectra resembling plots, termed loading vectors, which correspond to the new coordinate system of the data set, and corresponding point-by-point mappings, termed score plots. Physically, the loading vectors represent the Raman bands that explain best the variance in the data set, i.e., how the Raman spectra of the sample in each pixel changes. Since loading vectors do not represent physically obtainable spectra but must be regarded as the coordinate system of the data, the interpretation of loading vectors must consider both positive and negative peaks. The score plot depicts visually the spatial correlation of the loading vector with the mapped sample. The biochemical structures displayed in the score plots can be assigned by identifying the biochemical information provided by the loading vector in the corresponding pixels [27].

Prior to PCA, cosmic ray removal was performed, which eliminates any artifact bands from the Raman spectrum. Since the PCA separates any redundant information from the Raman spectra (analogous to deconvolution), baseline removal was not necessary, since it appears only in one loading vector (due to the loading vectors being orthogonal with each other).

3.5.3. Physical Characterization of PEM Capsules
The hydrodynamic diameter and surface charge of the beta-carotene loaded capsules were assessed using a Malvern Zetasizer Nano ZS equipped with a 4 mW He-Ne laser operating at 633 nm and an avalanche photodiode detector (Malvern Instruments, Worcestershire, UK). Zeta potential was measured by laser Doppler electrophoresis and the hydrodynamic diameter of the particles was measured by DLS. The measurements were carried out at 25 °C. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis of capsules were done on Hitachi SU8230 microscope (Hitachi, Krefeld, Germany) at 200 kV and 8 mm working distance.

The TEM experiments were carried out using a JEOL model JEM1010 (Jeol, Peabody, MA, USA) instrument operating at 80 kV accelerating voltage and equipped with a MegaViewIII CCD camera. For the TEM experiments, D407 cells were seeded for 24 h on Falcon cell culture inserts (0.4 μm) (Becton Dickinson Labware, Bedford, MA, USA), (8 × 103 cells/cell). The cells were afterwards incubated for another 24 h with capsules (10 capsules/well). The culture medium was then removed, and the cells were washed three times with PBS and prefixed for 1 h with glutaraldehyde (2.5% in PBS). Next, three steps of rinsing with PBS and cells were post-fixed for 1 h in osmium tetroxide (2% in PBS). Dehydration was carried out in HPLC grade acetone in distilled water dilutions, followed by embedding with Epon resin. The resin was polymerized at 60 °C for 48 h, then cooled for 12 h. Ultrathin sections of about 70 nm, obtained on a diamond knife (Diatome) with Leica UC6 ultramicrotome (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) were post-stained with lead citrate and uranyl acetate. Sections collected on 200 mesh Cu grids were further examined.
SVMSignal performs signal peptide prediction in two stages using support vector machines (SVMs) as classifiers, as illustrated in Figure 1. It predicts signal peptides from the first 100 residues of each protein sequence. The first SVM classifies every residue into around the cleavage site, denoted by “C", or outside the cleavage site, denoted by “L." Since protein sequences containing signal peptides have cleavage sites, the results from the first classifier can help the user determine whether a protein sequence contains a signal peptide. The second classifier integrates the predictions of the first classifier and other features to classify each residue into the signal peptide region denoted by “s" or the non-signal peptide region denoted by “L." Note that the last predicted residue of the signal peptide is denoted by “C." If a protein sequence does not contain any signal peptides, all of the 100 residues will be assigned the label “L".
More specifically, the first classifier is a residue-wise predictor. Given a protein sequence, the residue to be predicted is centered in a window of length 17. The features derived from a 17-mer sequence for prediction include: (i) position-specific free energy of transmembrane helix insertion [62] to describe the hydrophobic core, called free energy for convenience; (ii) amphiphilicity [63]; (iii) charge index [64]; (iv) polarity [65]; (v) residue volume index [66], and (vi) amino acid composition. For the first and last eight residues in the first classifier, we use small values to complete the columns corresponding to non-existing residues. The second classifier is a chain-wise predictor that uses the following features: (i) the prediction results from the first classifier; (ii) the first five feature profiles with a dimension of 100 used in the first predictor; and (iii) a novel nonlinear pattern feature that captures the relationships between any two of the five feature profiles, e.g., the sequence distance between positively charged residues and the hydrophobic region. All of the features are normalized to a [0, 1] closed interval.
The five features used in the both predictors are described below. The free energy profile, amphiphilicity profile and polarity profile are normalized, respectively, by the sigmoidal functions given by An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e005.jpg, An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e006.jpg and An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e007.jpg, where “energy" denotes the free energy of transmembrane helix insertion estimated by Hessa et al.'s method [62]; “am" denotes the amphiphilicity derived by Mitaku et al.'s method [63]; and “po" denotes the mean residue polarity calculated by Radzicka and Wolfenden's method [65]. The charge profile is obtained by defining positively charged residues as 1, neutral residues as 0.5, and negatively charged residues as 0 based on the index used by Klein et al. [64]. The volume profile is used by Pontius et al. [66] and normalized by dividing the maximum volume value 237.2.

To determine the amino acid composition of each window, we use the natural language processing method described in Leopold and Kindermann [67]. A protein subsequence of length l can be treated as a document, which is a vector containing twenty types of words, corresponding to amino acids. First, we calculate the frequencies of the amino acids in each document in the training data. Let the word w k be the kth type of amino acid. In addition, let k=1, 2 … 20, An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e008.jpg be the frequency of w k in document i; and let An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e009.jpg denote the frequency of w k in all N documents in the training data, i.e., An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e010.jpg. Second, we calculate the importance weights of the amino acids, denoted by An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e011.jpg in all the documents in the training data by the equation An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e012.jpg. The amino acid composition feature is given by the component-wise product of An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e013.jpg and r, and then normalized by the L 2 norm.

A feature value close to 1 means the corresponding residue is more hydrophobic and more amphiphilic, is positively charged, and has a larger volume and a higher polarity. In the first classifier, we fill 0.5 as features for nonexistent residues in windows centered by residues of the N-terminus and C-terminus for all profiles, except charge and volume, we fill zero.

SVMSignal displays the feature profiles on the web service. Figure 2 shows an example of feature profiles. The green curve denotes the free energy, the red dots are charge indices; the gray curve represents the polarity; the blue dotted curve indicates the residue volumes; the orange curve represents the amphiphilicity; the blue vertical lines are predicted potential cleavage sites; and the red vertical line is the predicted cleavage site after post-processing. The visualization of biochemical feature profiles helps users recognize signal peptide structures. This example shows a clear signal peptide structure, which is given by the charged residues followed by the hydrophobic core and then by the c-region containing the small neutral and polar residues. Furthermore, there are several potential cleavage sites after the hydrophobic core, but only one of them lies near more polar and small residues.
Given any two of the above five biochemical features, we can define a nonlinear profile pattern feature to capture the relationship between two profiles by determining the distance of a shift between the profiles' peaks. For example, to model the signal peptide structure of charged residues in the n-region followed by the hydrophobic residues in the h-region, we shift the charge profile by some amino acids (i.e., distance) and compute the dot product of the free energy profile and the shifted charge profile. A larger dot product implies a better match between the profile peaks, and the shift distance determines the sequential relationship. If maximizing the above dot product yields a positive shift, it implies that the charged residues are followed by a hydrophobic core.

Specifically, let f be a vector corresponding to a feature profile, where f(i) is the feature value of the ith residue for i=1,2,…,100; and f(i) is 0 otherwise. Similarly, let g be a vector corresponding to another feature profile. We determine the best shift S 1 by the maximum dot product derived by Equation (1). To capture a profile's skewness near the beginning and end positions, i.e., positions 1 and 100, we reverse the profile g and then find the best shift S2, as shown in Equation (2).

equation image	(1)
equation image	(2)
Furthermore, we normalize the nonlinear features S 1 and S 2 extracted from the f and g profiles by simply using the range of possible shifts, i.e., normalized An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is pone.0035018.e016.jpg. In this way, we calculate twenty nonlinear pattern features for all permutations of the five biochemical profiles.
Potential cleavage sites are determined according to the residues predicted with “C" labels by the first classifier. Since the first classifier performs residue-wise prediction, the residues labeled with “C" may occur sparsely anywhere in the query. First, we identify the ten-residue region nearest the N-terminus that contains the most “C" labels. We consider ten-residue regions because we defined five residues around the cleavage site as positive data. Next, we determine the position of the last residue in the signal peptide from the residues with “C" labels in the region that minimizes the total distance between the positions of all “C" labels.
As the first predictor of SVMSignal is residue-wise and needs to handle a large number of unstable training samples, we use DTSVM [68] to train the first classifier. In the training stage, for each sequence containing a signal peptide, we label the five residues before and after the cleavage site, a total of 10 residues, as “C" for positive data and “L" for negative data because residues near the cleavage site may have similar biochemical properties. DTSVM requires both training and validation sets, so we divide the Phobius 2004 dataset [16] (described later) into 80% for training, 10% for validation, and 10% for cross-validation. The second classifier is a chain-wise predictor and contains 2654 protein chains for training. Because the sample size is not large, we use LIBSVM [69] with an RBF kernel function to train the model directly. Then, we integrate the two classifiers to perform 10-fold cross-validation on the Phobius dataset to determine the parameters “cost" (21.5=2.8284) and “gamma" (2−4.5=0.0442) in the kernel function of LIBSVM.
To avoid over-estimating our predictor's performance, we use the Phobius dataset [16] to train SVMSignal. The dataset contains 247 transmembrane protein sequences, 45 transmembrane protein sequences with signal peptides, 1,275 sequences containing signal peptides without transmembrane domains and 1,087 protein sequences that do not have signal or transmembrane domains.
We downloaded SPdb (release 5.1) [19], a signal peptide database containing signal sequences of archaea, bacteria, viruses and eukaryotes with all the sequences derived from Swiss-Prot (release 55.0 2008). Then, taking all 2,512 experimentally verified signal peptide sequences in the dataset, we used CD-HIT [33] to filter out sequences whose first 100 residues shared at least 30% sequence similarity with sequences in the Phobius training dataset. The process produced a dataset of 656 sequences, which we call the SPDB dataset.
To evaluate the predictors' ability to distinguish signal sequences from non-signal sequences, we compiled a dataset from UniProt/Swiss-Prot (downloaded in December 2010) and PDBTM [21] (downloaded on November 5, 2010). We divided the dataset into three disjoint groups, i.e., sequences containing signal peptides (denoted by SP), sequences containing only transmembrane domains (denoted by TM), and sequences that did not contain transmembrane domains or signal peptides (denoted by G). The SP dataset was obtained by querying signal peptides in UniProt/Swiss-Prot with the evidence code “experiment" or “probable". Note that the SP dataset includes some signal peptides with “Transmembrane [KW-0812]" or “Membrane [KW-0472]" annotations. The TM dataset was obtained by querying “Transmembrane" annotated with “experiment" or “probable" evidence codes in UniProt/Swiss-Prot and removing any data with the signal peptide annotation in any evidence code. We further enlarged the TM dataset by extracting sequences in PDBTM with structures solved by X-rays with a resolution less than 4.0 Å. The G dataset contained sequences without signal peptides or TM annotations. Finally, for each dataset we filtered out sequences whose first 100 residues share at least 30% similarity with sequences in the Phobius training dataset by using CD-HIT. The resulting SP, TM, and G datasets contained 901, 104, and 5,755 sequences, respectively.
Adult patients with suspected TBM admitted to Asan Medical Center, a 2,700-bed tertiary hospital in Seoul, South Korea, were prospectively enrolled from March 2015 to August 2017. We enrolled adult patients of more than 16 years old with suspected TBM who agreed to additional sampling of CSF and blood for ELISPOT assays. Cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples were collected before starting anti-TB treatment.
Patients with suspected TBM were categorized as definite TBM, probable TBM, possible TBM, or non-TBM, according to a recently proposed uniform case definition. In brief, they were classified as having “definite TBM” if clinical specimens were found to be positive for the AFB stain, M. tuberculosis culture, or M. tuberculosis PCR. Patients were classified as having “probable TBM” or “possible TBM” according to their scores in the uniform research case definition for TBM,38 and as having “non-TBM” if an alternative diagnosis was established. To classify the diagnostic performances of the various biomarkers, definite TBM and probable TBM were used as the reference standards for TBM, and non-TBM was used as the reference standard for without TBM.
Microbiological and pathological specimens for diagnosis of TBM were processed by standard techniques and procedures, as described elsewhere.12 In brief, at least 2 mL of CSF sample was inoculated on liquid (BACTEC MGIT 960, BD, Franklin Lakes, NJ) and solid (Ogawa media, Korea Institute of Tuberculosis, Seoul, Korea) culture media for mycobacterial culture, and the M. tuberculosis complex was identified using a commercial DNA probe (AccuProbe Mycobacterium complex culture identification kit; Gene-Probe, San Diego, CA). M. tuberculosis PCR (COBAS® TaqMan® MTB test; Roche Diagnostics, Branchburg, NJ) was performed by using at least 100 μL of non-centrifuged CSF sample.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis–specific IFN-γ ELISPOT assays (T-SPOT.TB; Oxford Immunotec, Oxford, United Kingdom) were performed on mononuclear cells from CSF (CSF-MCs) and PBMCs. Briefly, PBMCs were separated from heparinized peripheral blood by density gradient using lymphocyte separation medium (Corning, New York, NY), and CSF-MCs were collected by centrifugation of CSF. The PBMCs and CSF-MCs were suspended in appropriate volumes of AIM-V medium, at concentrations of 2.5 × 106 cells/mL. The samples were incubated in wells precoated with antihuman IFN-γ antibody and stimulated with culture filtrate protein 10 and early secretory antigenic target 6 (ESAT6), phytohemagglutinin, and medium only. Spots were detected and counted with an automated ELISPOT plate reader (Autoimmune Diagnostika GmbH, Strasburg, Germany), and the results were expressed as spot-forming cells/2.5 × 105 cells.
We simultaneously analyzed levels of 18 cytokines and chemokines in CSF samples from 42 TBM patients and 45 non-TBM patients by using cytometric bead array based on microspheres for detecting cytokine/chemokine in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions (BD Bioscience, San Jose, CA). We measured granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor, interferon (IFN)-α, IFN-γ, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p40, IL-13, IL-17A, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1α, MIP-1β, regulated on activation and normally T-cell expressed and secreted, IFN-γ–induced protein (IP)-10, and vascular endothelial growth factor. Data were acquired using FACS CANTO II flow cytometer, FACSDiva software (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA), and FlowJo software (FlowJo LLC, Ashland, OR).

In addition, soluble PD-1 and soluble PD-L1 levels in CSF samples were measured with commercial ELISA kits (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Data were acquired using the SpectraMax 190 microplate reader and SoftMax Pro software (Molecular Device, San Jose, CA).
Statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism 7 (GraphPad Software, Inc., La Jolla, CA) and SPSS for Windows software package, version 23 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Differences between TBM and non-TBM groups were analyzed with the Mann–Whitney U test. The Spearman test was used to calculate correlation coefficients between cytokine/chemokine levels, ELISPOT results, adenosine deaminase (ADA) levels, and diagnostic scores. Optimal cutoff values for cytokine/chemokine levels, ELISPOT results, and ADA levels were assessed from receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, by selecting the farthest point from the diagonal line that maximized the sum of sensitivity and specificity. Diagnostic performance was expressed in terms of sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), positive likelihood ratio (LR), and negative LR. All tests of significance were two-tailed, and P-values less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant.
Seeds of A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) and transgenic knockout lines atcathb1 (SALK_49118), atcathb2 (SALK_89030) and atcathb3 (SALK_19630) in a Col-0 background were obtained from NASC (Nottingham, UK). The atcathb double knockout lines, atcathb 1 × 3 and atcathb 2 × 3, were generated by crossing and lack of expression checked using RT-PCR. Finally, the atcathb triple-mutant line 62 has been used and described in McLellan et al.18.
The 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown in vitro were irradiated with 50 kJ/m2 UV-C (CL-1000, UVP, Upland, CA, USA). After 1 h of incubation in continuous light, 80 g of seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and total proteins were extracted for 1 h at 4 °C in 0.2 M NaCl, 3 mM DTT, 50 mM CH3COONa, pH 5, ratio 1.5 g/5 ml. The extract was filtered through a 0.45 μm filter unit and loaded onto a 60-ml bacitracin-sepharose column (bacitracin from Sigma (St. Louis, MO, USA), activated sepharose from Amersham Biosciences, Amersham, UK). After washing off unbound proteins, the bacitracin-bound DEVDase was eluted by distilled water with 3 mM DTT. The purified DEVDase fraction was incubated with biotin-DEVD–FMK (Bachem Ltd, Bubendorf, Switzerland) at final concentrations of 1 or 5 μM for 1 h at 37 °C in 100 mM NaCl, 25 mM NaOAc, 3 mM DTT, 100 μM PMSF, pH 5.5. Proteins were then precipitated by adding bovine serum albumin (BSA) at 1 mg/ml as a carrier and 10% final trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and kept on ice for 30 min. The precipitated proteins were collected by centrifugation (7800 × g, 20 min, 4 °C). The protein pellet was washed once with 70% acetone and the dried pellet resuspended in TBS (20 mM Tris, 137 mM NaCl, pH 7.6). Then, 6.6 μl of streptavidin-polystyrene magnetic beads (M-280, Dynal, Carlsbad, CA, USA) were added per 1 ml resuspended proteins to capture the biotinylated DEVDase and washed seven times: twice with TBS; twice with TBS, 1 M NaCl; twice with TBS, 1% Triton X-100; and once with distilled water. After washing, the beads were resuspended in 1 × alkaline SDS loading buffer (pH 8). SDS-PAGE gels were stained using a MS/MS-compatible silver stain (Pierce, Waltham, MA, USA) and cut-out bands sent for LC-MS/MS analysis.
A total protein extract was prepared from 10 g of Arabidopsis leaves (~5–6-week-old seedlings in short day) in 10 ml cold extraction buffer (H2O, 3 mM DTT, 200 μM PMSF) at 4 °C. After centrifugation at 18 000 × g, 4 °C, 15 min, the supernatant was labelled with 25 μM Biotin-DEVD–FMK for 1 h and filtered (0.22 μm). The labelling buffer was replaced with PBS using 5 repeated spins and a 20 ml Pierce Protein Concentrator, 9K MWCO. The sample was incubated with 100 μl magnetic streptavidin beads (M280, Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA) at RT for 1 h. After six washes, the beads and bound proteins were boiled in 30 μl SDS loading buffer at 95 °C for 5 min before SDS-PAGE and silver staining.
Protein bands of interest were excised from gels, reduced with 10 mM dithiothreitol and alkylated with 55 mM iodoacetamide. Samples were digested with trypsin overnight at 37 °C and analysed by LC-MS/MS using a NanoAcquity LC (Waters, Wilmslow, UK) coupled to a 4000 Q-TRAP (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). Peptides were selected for fragmentation automatically by data-dependent analysis. Data produced were searched using Mascot (Matrix Science, London, UK), against the Uniprot database with Arabidopsis as selected taxonomy. Mass spectrometry identification in this project was carried out by the Biomolecular Analysis Facility, University of Manchester (Manchester, UK) or the Taplin Mass Spectrometry Facility, Harvard Medical School (Boston, MA, USA). N-terminal sequencing was carried out at the Faculty of Biological Sciences (Leeds, UK).
The plasmids containing the cDNA of AtCathB-3 (pR17098) was obtained from RIKEN BRC (Tsukuba, Japan) and ABRC (Columbus, OH, USA). The signal peptide (25 residues) of AtCathB-3 were deleted using PCR and cloned into the E. coli expression vector pSCherry2 (Delphi Genetics, Charleroi, Belgium) that added a His-tag at the C-terminus and a cherry-tag at the N-terminus to produce pSCherry::AtCB3. Cherrytag encodes a red polypeptide (heme-binding part of cytochrome, 11 kDa) providing a visual aid for estimating solubility (Delphi). The DNA sequences of Cherry-AtCB3-6 × His were then amplified and ligated into the baculovirus transfer vector pAcGP67A (Pharmingen, Oxford, UK) at the XbaI and PstI sites to give pAcGP67A::AtCB3. A null allele of AtCathB-3 with a C131A mutation in the active site was generated using the Quikchange (Stratagene, Santa Clara, CA, USA) protocol and the primers 1610QF and 1610QR to give pAcGP67A-AtCB3C131A. The ORF of AtCathB3 without a stop codon was amplified and cloned into pENTR1A (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) to give pENTR1A::AtCB3nostop. pENTR1A::AtCB3nostop was subsequently recombined into pH7RWE (VIB, Ghent, Belgium) to generate a AtCathB3::mRFP fusion construct for plant expression. The sequences of primers used are in Supplementary Table S2.
Baculovirus secretory transfer vectors pAcGP67A-AtCB3 and pAcGP67A-AtCB3C131A containing Cherrytag::CathepsinB::His fusions were transfected along with linearised baculovirus DNA (OET-cathepsin deleted strain) into Sf9 insect cells grown in Excell-420 serum-free medium (Sigma) using Genejuice liposome transfection reagent  (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany). Next, 50 ml of Hi-5 cells at 2.5 × 106 cells per ml were infected with CathepsinB P2 virus high titre stock. The media containing secreted AtCathB were harvested at 72 h post infection, before cell lysis, by removing the cells at 1000 × g for 10 min at 4 °C. Imidazole was added to the media (5 mM final) and purified on Ni-NTA resin (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany), with slow mixing of the media/bead suspension at 4 oC for 2 h. After washes using a column and imidazole gradient between 5 and 15 mM (W1 to W5) in 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, and 150 mM NaCl, recombinant AtCathB was eluted with 100 mM imidazole buffer and fractions collected. All fractions were analysed by SDS-PAGE. After elution, purified AtCathB was stored at −20 °C until activation.
Unless stated otherwise, aliquots of purified recombinant AtCathB at 1 μg/μl were transferred in 2 ml centrifuge tubes. The pH of the sample was brought down to pH 4.5 by adding the same volume of McIlvaine buffer pH 4.5 (10.65 ml of 0.1 M citric acid and 9.35 ml of 0.2 M disodium hydrogenphosphate in 20 ml final volume) to the sample. The recombinant protein was then left at 4 °C for self-activation for 3–7 days in the absence or presence of 10 μg/ml dextran sulphate as previously described.32 Activation and sizes were verified using SDS-PAGE
Enzymatic activities were carried out in assay buffer 100 mM NaCl, 25 mM NaOAc, 3 mM DTT and 100 μM PMSF in whole extract only, pH 5.5, using synthetic fluorogenic substrates at 50 to 100 μM and a Fluoroskan Ascent microplate fluorometer (Labsystems, DYNEX Technologies, Chantilly, VA, USA). Ex 355 nm and Em 460 nm were used for substrates conjugated with 7-amino-4-methylcoumarin (AMC). Ex 485 nm and Em 538 nm were used for ac-DEVD2-rhodamine 110 (Bachem). Slopes were calculated out of 15 measures every 2 min and expressed as fluorescent unit/min per mg protein. Inhibitors were incubated at various final concentrations for 30 min before the enzymatic activity assay.
Proteins were separated on SDS-PAGE (15%) and transferred to a Hybond-P membrane (Amersham Biosciences) at 100 V for 1 h in transfer buffer. The membrane was then blocked with BSA at 4 °C overnight. After incubation with anti-His (Amersham) followed by secondary antibody incubation, the membrane was treated with a mixture of supersignal (Thermo, Waltham, MA, USA) west-femto substrate and west-pico substrate (1 : 5 vol/vol). Pierce imaging film was used and developed with a Compact 2 processor. Activity probe labelling was carried out in 100 mM NaCl, 25 mM NaOAc, 3 mM DTT, pH 5.5, using biotin-DEVD–FMK at 2–50 μM final concentration, at 37 °C for 60 min. Protein were separated on SDS-PAGE (15%) and transferred to a Hybond-P membrane (Amersham Biosciences). After incubation with streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) (Amersham), the biotinylated proteins were detected using a mixture of supersignal (Thermo) west-femto substrate and west-pico substrate (1 : 5 vol/vol). Apparent size was calculated using GelAnalyser (www.gelanalyser.com); kDa brackets are given when apparent sizes varied slightly between gel repeats, as expected.
Protoplasts were prepared essentially as in Danon et al.14 PCD was induced by 10 kJ/m2 UV-C, 10 mM H2O2 or 15 μg/ml tunicamycin. PCD was detected using Evans blue (0.05%) or Sytox green (5 μM). The percentage of dye-positive protoplasts over the total protoplasts was calculated from triplicate.
This death assay was carried out essentially as in Danon et al.14 Sterile seeds were plated in vitro on solid MS media without glucose and germinated in 16 h light at 22 °C. At 4 to 7 days, seedlings were treated with 10 kJ/m2 UV-C using a CL-1000 UV crosslinker (UVP). Bleaching was scored at 1 day.
Sterile seeds were plated in vitro on solid MS media without glucose, supplemented with methyl viologen (Sigma) at various concentrations from 0.25 to 10 μM and germinated in continuous light at 22 °C. The percentage of seedlings with green cotyledons over total seed was scored at 10 days. For mutant lines, 5 μM was found to give the clearest phenotype.
In this check-list we use the classification of the order Coleoptera accepted by Bouchard et al. (2011), the genera and species names we use following accepted ones in the Catalogue of Palaearctic Coleoptera (Löbl and Smetana (eds.) 2003-2010) with some details accepted by other authors: Staphylinidae by Herman (2001), Buprestoidea by Kuban et al. (2006), Tenebrionoidea by Silfverberg (2004), Cerambycidae by Althoff and Danilevsky (1997), and Curculionoidea by Alonso-Zarazaga and Lyal (1999). The main taxonomic categories referred to in this check-list are the following: order, suborder, family, subfamily, tribe, genus and species. Higher taxonomic categories, like series, super- or sub-tribes, are omitted (for details see Bouchard et al. (2011)). Most common synonyms and subspecies names are included, especially the names used in the two volumes Lithuanian monograph (Pileckis and Monsevičius 1995, 1997). The list of Lithuanian beetles was compiled on the basis of published literature sources and revisions of public beetle collections. The catalogues, checklists and other faunistic literature of neighbouring countries have been used to compile the list of beetles species expected in Lithuanian fauna. The species are arranged alphabetically in their respective genera. Expected for Lithuania species names are placed in square brackets […]. The species excluded from the list of Lithuanian beetles are marked by asterisk (*). The officially protected species, included in the Red Data Book of Lithuania (2007) are marked by the abbreviation RDB. The comments (#) are presented after the list and referenced by sequential numbers.
A total of 24 female BioBreeding control rats (BBc; inbred line originally derived from Wistar rats obtained from Health Canada Animal Resources Division), ages 28–42 d were randomly assigned to one of two groups: wire bottomed cages with metal plates covering ¼ of the floor space (12 rats: wire) or plastic suspended housing with maple wood chips (12 rats:bedding; P.W.I. Industries, Saint Hyacinthe QC). Female rats were selected for this study to reduce the possibility of immune effects not directly related to housing. Female rats are superior to males in two respects: the intestinal tract of female rats is naturally less permeable than that of males (Homma et al., 2005, Shastri et al., 2015), and female rats have been reported to be more resilient to stress-induced physiological effects (Rakoff-Nahoum, Paglino, Eslami-Varzaneh, Edberg, & Medzhitov, 2004).

The number of animals/housing group was determined from previous measurements in our lab showing that a 30% CV was common for many of the immune parameters measured. Power calculations indicated that 6 animals/group were required to determine a physiologically significant difference of about 1 ng/g (power of 80% with a type 1 error rate of 0.05). A total of 2 animals were required to measure all the parameters of interest. Thus, 6 × 2 = 12 animals/group were required for the study. Rats were transferred from the breeding room to the housing room (same facility) at the start of the experiment and housed individually for 63–67 d with free access to an AIN93G purified diet (Reeves, Nielsen, & Fahey, 1993) containing 5% w/w alphacel (cellulose) and reverse-osmosis treated water. This period was well in excess of the 7 days required to stabilise bacterial community changes after alterations in diet (Kalmokoff et al., 2013). Rats were subjected to a 12 h light/dark cycle at a temperature of 21 °C and cages and bedding were changed once per week. All rats were provided with shelters, glass marble toys and music. During the final two weeks of the study (d49-end), all food intake was monitored and all feces were collected (balance phase). Animals were killed by exsanguination under anesthesia. Serum samples were collected at necropsy. This study was approved by the Animal Care Committees of Health Canada and the University Of Ontario Institute Of Technology.

Health Canada maintains a specific pathogen free facility with yearly testing for lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, mouse adenovirus FL/K87, hantavirus, Encephalitozoon cuniculi, and cilia-associated respiratory bacillus. Other yearly tests included bacterial cultures of nasal aspirate and cecum cultures as well as tests for endoparasites (including helminthes and protozoa) and ectoparasites. Tests repeated every three months included: sendai virus, pneumonia virus of mice, rat coronavirus, Kilham rat virus, Toolan’s H-1 virus, rat parvovirus, rat minute virus, parvovirus generic assay, reovirus, rat theilovirus, and Mycoplasma pulmonis. All animals were negative.
Serum samples (N = 6/housing group) were analysed for blood urea nitrogen (Talke & Schubert, 1965). Liver enzymes were measured using an ABX Pentra 400Automated clinical chemistry analyzer using ABX Pentra test kits (Burlington, Ontario, Canada). Specific reactions pathways as follows: alanine amino transferase (ALT) using L-alanine and 2-oxoglutarate as substrate coupled to lactate dehydrogenase and following the disappearance of NADH; alkaline phosphatase using p-Nitrophenylphosphate as substrate; aspartate amino transferase (AST) using 2-oxoglutarate plus L-aspartate as substrate coupled to malate dehydrogenase and following NADH disappearance; and lactate dehydrogenase using pyruvate as substrate following NADH disappearance.
Fecal SCFA and branched chain fatty acids were measured after acidification using sulfuric acid (Weaver, Krause, Miller, & Wolin, 1992) and analysed by gas chromatography on an Agilent 6890 gas chromatograph (Agilent Technologies Canada Inc., Mississauga ON). An internal standard (2-ethylbutryic acid) was added to the samples to correct for loss during extraction and the samples were filtered through a 0.45 μm PTFE syringe filter. The column was a 60 m × 0.25 mm, I.D. 0.25 μm film thickness Nukol column (Supleco-Sigma-Aldrich, Mississauga ON), run at 0.8 mL/min with helium carrier gas and the temperature was increased from 100 to 200 °C at 8 °C/min. Total run time was 30 min. The injector was washed in between runs by injecting acetone followed by 10 injections of water. A mixture of 2-ethylbutryic acid, sulphuric acid and volatile standard mix (Sigma-Aldrich, Mississauga ON) was injected every 10th run to ensure system calibration. Data was analysed using MSD Chemstation software (Agilent Technologies Canada Inc., ON, Canada)
Mucosal (mesenteric lymph node) and systemic (spleen) samples were analysed using a FACSCalibur flow cytometer (BD Biosciences, ON) and standard gating techniques (Shingadia, O'Gorman, Rowley, & Shulman, 2001). The following antibodies were used for cell surface staining: anti-CD45 (PE-Cy5, Clone OX-1) (Leukocyte Common Antigen), anti-CD3 (APC, Clone 1F4) (total T cell), anti-CD4 (PE, Clone OX-35) (T helper), anti-CD25 (FITC, Clone OX-39), anti-CD8a (FITC, Clone OX-8) (cytotoxic T cell), anti-CD45RA (FITC, Clone OX-33) (B cell), and anti-CD161a (PE, Clone 10/78) (Natural Killer cell). Cells were also permeabilized and intracellularly stained with anti-FOXP3 (PE, Clone FJK-16s) to detect regulatory T cell populations. Macrophage activation was analysed using anti-CD68 (Alexa Fluor 488, ED1 clone) (Onodera et al., 1997). Fluorochrome-matched isotype controls were used to assess non-specific binding. Anti-CD68 was purchased from AbD Serotec (NC, USA). All other antibodies were obtained from BD Biosciences (ON, Canada).
Tissues were collected at necropsy, snap frozen and stored at −80 °C. The ileum, colon, cecum, and spleen were homogenized (Hoentjen et al., 2005) and then centrifuged for 30 min at 16,100g. Supernatants were stored at −80 °C and later analysed for the presence of cytokines: interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL-10), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1 (CINC-1). ELISAs (Duo Set sandwich kits; R&D Systems, MN, USA) were performed in 96 well plates (Greiner Bio-One, NC, USA) and were read at a wavelength of 450 nm on a Synergy HTTR microplate reader (BioTek, VT, USA).
Fresh, manually expressed feces were collected 1–2 days prior to the initiation of the balance phase and immediately stored at −20 °C. Fecal material from individual rats (1.0 g/rat) was pooled (N = 6/housing) to minimize inter-rat fecal community variability (Kalmokoff, Franklin, Petronella, Green, & Brooks, 2015). Fecal community DNA was prepared (Kalmokoff et al., 2015) and duplicate near full length 16S rRNA gene libraries were constructed from two independently derived community DNA samples for each housing condition. Ribosomal genes were amplified using the primers F44/R1543 and cloned following 12 cycles of amplification (Kalmokoff et al., 2013). One hundred clones were randomly selected from each duplicate clone library (2 × 100 clones/housing) and sequenced. Near full length 16S rRNA clones were initially aligned against the Silva data base (Quast et al., 2013) and sequences demonstrating <3% DNA sequence divergence binned into the dominant phylotype. The data was checked for chimeric sequences using subroutines available in Mothur (Schloss et al., 2009). Final binned sequences were assigned to the phylogeny using the seqmatch function available at the Ribosome Data Project (Cole et al., 2009).

Changes in community structure determined from the analysis of 16S rRNA clone libraries were confirmed using two additional analyses. First, differences in 16S rRNA gene content (as a percentage of total 16S rRNA gene copy number) within the phylum Bacteroidetes and the genus Lactobacillus (Castillo et al., 2006, Rinttila et al., 2004) were quantified using quantitative PCR (qPCR). Total 16S rRNA gene content was determined using the universal primer set HDA1/HDA2 (Walter et al., 2000). Second, individual rat fecal pellets (N = 8/housing condition) were placed into separate pre-weighed 50 mL screw-cap plastic tubes containing 1.0 g of sterile glass beads, weighed, and transferred into an anaerobic hood. Following the addition of 10 mL anaerobic 0.1% peptone water, the pellets were mixed to obtain homogenous slurries, and subjected to a 10-fold dilution series. Dilutions were plated on L-10 anaerobic medium to obtain the total anaerobic count (Caldwell & Bryant, 1966) and de Man-Rogosa-Sharpe medium (De Man, Rogosa, & Sharpe, 1960) for total lactobacilli. Plates were incubated in an atmosphere of H2/CO2/N2 (10:20:70) at 38 °C for 48 h, and the dilution plate having 30–300 colonies counted, with final counts expressed in terms of percentage of the total anaerobic count.
Immunological data were analysed after log transformation by two-way ANOVA with bedding and tissue as factors (Statistica; Statsoft, OK, USA). Fecal SCFA, food and energy consumption, feed efficiency, serum biochemical parameters, and Lactobacilli plating counts were analysed using the two-tailed Student’s t-test (equal variance). The results are presented as mean ± standard error (SE). Results were considered significant when P < 0.05.
All the regents and analytical grade solvents in this paper were obtained commercially and used without further purification unless indicated. 2′-Hydroxyacetophenone, benzoyl chloride, 2′-hydroxy-5′-methoxyacetophenone, 2′-hydroxy-4′-methoxyacetophenone and 2′,4′-dihydroxy- acetophenone were obtained from Macklin (Shanghai, China). 3,4-Dimethoxybenzoylchoride, 4-methoxybenzoylchoride and 2′-hydroxy-5′-methylacetophenone were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich (Shanghai, China), Pyridine and potassium hydroxide (KOH) were from Aladdin (Shanghai, China). Pyridine was distilled from anhydrous potassium hydroxide (KOH) before use. 1H-NMR (400 MHz) and 13C-NMR (101 MHz) spectra were obtained on an Avance III 400 MHz spectrometer (Bruker, Karlsruhe, Germany) in CDCl3. The progress of reactions was checked by analytical thin layer chromatography (TLC). The mass spectra were obtained on a LCMS-IT-TOF mass spectrometer (Shimadzu, kyoto, Japan). Photoluminescence (PL) spectra and absolute PL quantum yields were obtianed on an FLS920 spectrophotometer (Edinburgh Instruments, Edinburgh, UK). The fluorescence lifetimes were obtained with an FLS 980 spectrometer (Edinburgh Instruments, Edinburgh, UK). Ultraviolet (UV) absorption spectra were collected on a UV-2600 spectrometer (Shimadzu, Kyoto, Japan). Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images were obtained on a Zeiss Merlin emission scanning electron microscope (Zeiss Co., Oberkochen, Germany). The human lung cancer A549 cell line was obtained from laboratory animal center of Sun Yat-sen University. Commercially available RPMI Medium Modified, Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s Medium (DMEM), 0.25% trypsin solution, phosphate buffered saline (PBS), the Mito Tracker Red assay kit (MT) and 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2-H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) were obtained from Thermo-Fisher Biochemical Products (Beijing, China). Fluorescent images were examined on an OLYMPUS FV3000 laser scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss Co., Oberkochen, Germany) and cell viabilities were analyzed by a Flex Station 3 microplate reader (Molecular Devices, silicon valley, USA).
The structures and synthesis route of the flavone derivatives are exhibited in Figure 1. This route involves three steps. The reaction involved in the first step was a modified Schotten-Baumann reaction, then, a Baker-Venkataraman rearrangement and cyclization catalyzed by acid were involved in the next steps [39,40]. The final products 5a–j were obtained in good yield.

3.2.1. Synthesis of Compounds 3a–j
Compounds 1a–j (0.9 mL), compounds 2a–j (1 mL) and dried and distilled pyridine (2.5 mL) were put into in a 50 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a reflux condenser, then the mixture was stirred about 30 min at 55 °C, and then poured into hydrochloric acid (60 mL, 1 mol/L) mixed with 25 g of crushed ice, then stirred until solids were formed. After that the solids were filtered from the solution and washed by 2.5 mL methanol and 2.5 mL water, to give, after recrystallization from methanol and water, compounds 3a–j.

3.2.2. Synthesis of Compounds 4a–j
Compounds 3a–j (0.01 mol), dried and distilled pyridine (9 mL) and powdered KOH (0.03 mol) were placed a round bottomed flask equipped with a reflux condenser and stirred for about 15 min at 50 °C. After the reaction, the mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature, then, aqueous acetic acid solution (12.5 mL, 10% concentration) were added into the mixture, giving compounds 4a–j after the solids were formed and filtered.

3.2.3. Synthesis of Compounds 5a–j
Compounds 4a–j (1.8 g) glycerol triacetate (10 mL) and concentrated sulfuric acid (0.4 mL) were placed in a round bottomed flask equipped with a reflux condenser, stirred about 1 h at 100 °C and then the mixture was poured into a beaker containing 50 g of crushed ice, where solids were formed after stirring and then filtered from the solution, Next the solids were washed with water until the acid was removed. Finally, the solids were purified and separated by column chromatography eluting with a mixed petroleum ether and ethyl acetate solvent until the final products 5a–j were obtained.

6-Methoxyflavone (5a). Yield: 78%; white solid, mp.: 163–165 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 7.93–7.80 (m, 1H), 7.52 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, 2H), 7.51–7.39 (m, 1H), 7.24 (d, J = 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (d, J = 3.1 Hz, 2H), 7.19 (s, 1H), 6.79 (s, 1H), 3.85 (s, 3H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 177.27, 162.12, 155.98, 150.04, 130.83, 130.46, 127.99, 127.99, 125.20, 125.20, 123.52, 122.76, 118.48, 105.79, 103.81, 54.90. MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C16H12O3 [M + H]+: 253.26; found: 253.28.

6-Methylflavone (5b). Yield: 74%; white solid, mp.: 119–122 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 7.96 (s, 1H), 7.90–7.83 (m, 1H), 7.46 (dd, J = 5.1, 2.2 Hz,2H), 7.44 (d, J = 1.9 Hz, 1H), 7.42 (s, 1H), 7.40 (s, 1H), 7.19 (s, 1H), 6.79 (s, 1H), 2.41 (s, 3H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 177.54, 162.25, 153.53, 134.19, 133.97, 130.88, 130.48, 127.99, 127.99, 125.24, 125.24, 124.03, 122.58, 116.82, 106.40, 19.91. MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C16H12O2 [M + H]+: 237.26; found: 237.27.

7-Methoxyflavone (5c). Yield: 57%; slight yellow solid, mp.: 110–112 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 8.08 (dd, J = 8.8, 3.5 Hz, 1H), 7.90–7.78 (m, 1H), 7.60–7.53 (m, 1H), 7.48–7.48 (m, 1H), 7.49–7.46 (m, 1H), 7.46–7.43 (m, 1H), 7.37–7.24 (m, 1H), 6.99–6.88 (m, 1H), 6.79 (s, 1H), 3.87 (s, 3H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 176.91, 163.20, 162.04, 157.01, 130.84, 130.41, 128.35, 128.35, 126.04, 126.04, 125.16, 116.81, 113.43, 106.53, 99.42, 54.85. MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C16H12O3 [M + H]+: 253.26; found: 253.24.

7-Hydroxyflavone (5d) Yield: 59%; slight yellow solid, mp.: 244–246 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 8.20 (dd, J = 29.6, 8.2 Hz, 3H), 7.89–7.58 (m, 3H), 7.48 (s, 1H), 7.24 (dd, J = 8.6, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 6.78 (s, 1H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 176.76, 163.39, 162.76, 155.79, 153.95, 133.12, 130.64, 129.32, 128.09, 127.76, 126.19, 125.30, 118.58, 110.29, 106.71; MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C15H10O3 [M + H]+: 239.12; found: 239.16.

4′-Methoxyflavone (5e). Yield: 71%; white solid, mp.: 161–163 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 8.23 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.90 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.69 (t, J = 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.42 (t, J = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 6.77 (s, 1H), 3.90 (s, 3H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 178.37, 163.48, 162.46, 156.21, 133.60, 128.04, 128.04, 125.68, 125.11, 124.05, 123.92, 117.97, 114.49, 114.49, 106.17, 55.52; MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C16H12O3 [M + H]+: 253.26; found: 253.28.

6,4′-Methoxyflavone (5f). Yield: 75%; white solid, mp.: 185–188 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 7.88–7.76 (m, 1H), 7.53 (d, J = 3.1 Hz, 2H), 7.43 (d, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (d, J = 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.21–7.19 (m, 1H), 7.01–6.91 (m, 1H), 6.73 (s, 1H), 3.83 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 6H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 178.24, 163.21, 162.33, 156.91, 150.99, 127.93, 127.93, 124.52, 124.11, 123.53, 119.38, 114.44, 114.44, 105.47, 104.89, 55.93, 55.50; MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C17H14O4 [M + H]+: 283.29; found: 283.21.

Flavone (5g). Yield: 81%; white solid, mp: 95–97 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 8.25(d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.99–7.90 (m, 2H), 7.71 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.63–7.49 (m, 4H), 7.43 (t, J = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.84 (s, 1H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 177.40, 162.41, 155.25, 132.76, 130.76, 130.68, 128.03, 128.03, 125.28, 124.69, 124.22, 124.22, 122.93, 117.07, 106.56. MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C15H10O2 [M + H]+: 223.24; found: 223.12.

6-Aminoflavone (5h). Yield: 66%; slight yellow solid, mp: 196–200 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 7.87–7.84 (m, 1H), 7.83 (dd, J = 6.3, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.45 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.43 (dd, J = 7.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 7.36–7.33 (m, 1H), 7.33 (s, 1H), 7.00 (d, J = 2.8 Hz, 1H), 6.97 (d, J = 2.9 Hz, 1H), 6.70 (s, 1H), 3.83 (s, 2H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 177.48, 161.99, 148.95, 143.10, 131.09, 130.31, 127.95, 127.95, 125.19, 125.19, 123.72, 121.21, 118.04, 106.91, 105.67; MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C15H11O2N [M + H]+: 238.25; found: 238.27.

3′,4′-Methoxyflavone (5i). Yield: 72%; white solid, mp: 154–155 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 8.17 (dd, J = 7.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.69–7.59 (m, 1H), 7.52 (dd, J = 8.3, 3.0 Hz, 2H), 7.37 (d, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.34 (d, J = 2.1 Hz, 1H), 6.93 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 6.77 (s, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.91 (s, 3H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 177.34, 162.35, 155.16, 151.08, 148.28, 132.5, 124.64, 124.12, 123.22, 122.92, 119.00, 116.96, 110.16, 107.85, 105.45, 55.07, 55.07; MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C17H14O4 [M + H]+: 283.29; found: 283.19.

6,3′,4′-Methoxyflavone (5j). Yield: 69%; white solid, mp.: 183–185 °C; 1H-NMR (CDCl3) δ 7.53 (dd, J = 6.3, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (d, J = 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (d, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J = 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (dd, J = 9.1, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 6.92 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 6.79 (s, 1H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 3.90 (s, 3H), 3.85 (s, 3H); 13C-NMR (CDCl3) δ 178.20, 163.20, 156.97, 152.03, 151.00, 149.29, 124.42, 123.61, 123.61, 119.95, 119.40, 111.18, 108.84, 105.76, 104.87, 56.09, 55.94, 55.94; MS (ESI-MS) m/z calcd for C18H16O5 [M + H]+: 313.32; found: 313.33.

3.3. Preparation for UV–Vis Spectra, Pl Spectra and SEM Measurements
The flavone derivatives were prepared as a series of stock methanol solutions with a concentration of 10−4 M. Then different volumes of methanol and water were added cautiously under vigorous stirring, the water fractions changed from 0 to 90 vol% while the final concentration was kept at 10−5 M. UV-vis absorption spectra and PL spectra compounds 5a–j were measured immediately at room temperature with the excitation wavelengths 360, 346, 305, 396, 310, 360, 310, 354, 365, 363 nm respectively in the CH3OH/H2O mixtures. The absolute PL quantum yields (ФF) of 5a in CH3OH, CH3OH/H2O (3:7, v/v) mixture, CH3OH/H2O (1:9, v/v) mixture, 5b in CH3OH, CH3OH/H2O (5:5, v/v) mixture, CH3OH/H2O (1:9, v/v) mixture, 5c in CH3OH, CH3OH/H2O (5:5, v/v) mixture, CH3OH/H2O (1:9, v/v) mixture, 5d in CH3OH, CH3OH/H2O (5:5, v/v) mixture, CH3OH/H2O (1:9, v/v) mixture, 5e in CH3OH, CH3OH/H2O (5:5, v/v) mixture, CH3OH/H2O (1:9, v/v) mixture and 5f in CH3OH, CH3OH/H2O (4:6,v/v) mixture, CH3OH/H2O(1:9, v/v) mixture were recorded on an integrating sphere and the fluorescence lifetimes of 5a–f were obtained on a FLS 980 spectrometer with the same water fractions change as the absolute PL quantum yields. Solutions of 5a–f with the same water fraction change of fluorescence lifetime were placed dropwise on a silicon wafer respectively and evaporated over 12 h at room temperature. After completely drying, metal spraying was performed for SEM imaging [41,42].
The flavone derivatives were dissolved in methanol solutions with a concentration of 10−4 M. Then different volumes of methanol and EG were added cautiously with the EG fractions changed from 0 to 50 vol% and the final concentration was kept at 10−5 M. As the EG fractions changed the viscosity of the solution changed [43]. After stirring, PL spectra of 5a–f with different EG fractions were measured immediately at room temperature using a FLS 980 spectrometer.
The flavone derivatives were dissolved in methanol solutions with a concentration of 10−4 M. Then different volumes of methanol and EG were added cautiously with the EG fractions changed from 0 to 50 vol% and the final concentration was kept at 10−5 M. As the EG fractions changed the viscosity of the solution changed [43]. After stirring, PL spectra of 5a–f with different EG fractions were measured immediately at room temperature using a FLS 980 spectrometer.
The flavone derivatives were dissolved in methanol solutions with a concentration of 10−4 M. Then different volumes of methanol and EG were added cautiously with the EG fractions changed from 0 to 50 vol% and the final concentration was kept at 10−5 M. As the EG fractions changed the viscosity of the solution changed [43]. After stirring, PL spectra of 5a–f with different EG fractions were measured immediately at room temperature using a FLS 980 spectrometer.
A549 cells were cultured in RPMI-1640 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), then seeded in a glass bottom dish with a density of 1 × 105 cells per dish and incubated in an incubator with 5% CO2 for 24 h. Flavone derivatives (1000 μL, 10 μM) were added to the dish and incubated at 37 °C for 30 min, the medium was later removed, and the cells were washed three times with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) buffer. Then the cell imaging of these compounds were observed on a FV3000 laser scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss) using an oil immersion lens (60× magnification, NA 1.4) within a bandwidth of 460−560 nm. A549 cells were cultured for 24 h with the same way the above mentioned then flavone derivatives (10 μM) and 200 nM Mito Tracker Deep Red (a commercially available mitochondrial dye) were added to the dish and incubated for 30 min for colocalization experiments. Thirty min later, the solutions were removed and cells were washed with PBS three times. Last, cell imaging of these flavone derivatives were obtained on a confocal laser scanning microscope.
One sample of Cytinus hypocistis was collected in south-eastern France (44.326894° N, 4.819041° E) by Jérémie Van Es (voucher deposited at the herbarium of the Station Alpine Joseph Fourier [GR]). Total genomic DNA was extracted from silica-dried material of one individual using the DNeasy Plant Kit (Qiagen) and subsequently quantified using the NanoDrop spectrophotometer. Genomic DNA (250 ng) was used for Illumina library preparation based on a semi-automatized protocol using the SPRIWorks Library Preparation System and a SPRI TE instrument (Beckmann Coulter), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. DNA fragments were amplified by 12 PCR cycles using a Platinum Pfx Taq Polymerase Kit (Life Technologies) and Illumina adapter-specific primers, and size-selected on 2 % agarose gel (∼600 bp). After library profile analysis conducted using an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies, USA) and qPCR quantification (MxPro, Agilent Technologies, USA), the library was sequenced using 101 base-length read chemistry in a paired-end flow cell on the Illumina HiSeq2000 sequencer (Illumina, USA). The raw sequences have been deposited in the Sequence Read Archive (accession number PRJEB9903).
The sequence was assembled de novo into a single circular contig using ORG.Asm, an assembler specially developed for the assembly of organelle genomes (available at http://metabarcoding.org/org-asm), based on a De Bruijn graph, and already used for the assembling of several plastomes (e.g. Besnard et al., 2014; Malé et al., 2014; Colli et al., 2015; Kocher et al., 2015). To assess the quality of the reconstructed sequence, raw reads were mapped against the reconstructed sequence with the software BWA (Li and Durbin, 2009). The mean coverage of the reconstructed sequence was 138×, ranging from 78× to 350×. Pair-end information was consistent with the assembled sequence, and the insert size was in accordance with library specifications.

Protein-encoding genes were identified based on the detection of open reading frames. For genes that included an intron or, like rps12, were trans-spliced, boundaries of exons were defined based on similarities with already annotated genes available in GenBank. Functional annotations of the encoded proteins were assigned by similarities and manually curated. The 23S, 16S and 5S rRNA genes were identified using rRNAmer (Lagesen et al., 2007), the 4.5S rRNA gene was identified using BLAST by searching against a local rRNA database constituted by a set of 4.5 rRNA genes extracted from complete plastomes downloaded from the NCBI ftp site (http://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/refseq/release/plastid/). Transfer RNA genes were annotated with tRNAscan-SE (Lowe and Eddy, 1997). We looked for the inverted repeat regions using RepSeek (Achaz et al., 2007). The plastid genome map was drawn with OGDraw (Lohse et al., 2013). The assembled sequence has been deposited in GenBank under the accession number KT335971.
In order to confirm the phylogenetic position of Cytinus within Malvales (as proposed by Nickrent et al., 2004) and obtain a phylogenetic tree for molecular evolution analyses (see below), we recovered all chloroplast genome sequences available in GenBank for all Malvidae s.l. (i.e. including Geraniales, Myrtales, Crossosomatales, Sapindales, Brassicales and Malvales) plus several levels of outgroup taxa: three rosid species belonging to Malpighiales, Fabales and Rosales (Populus alba, Lotus japonicus and Pentactina rupicola, respectively), one species of Saxifragales (Sedum sarmentosum) and one species from Vitales (Vitis rotundifolia). Sequences were downloaded on 17 June 2014. When more than one genome sequence was available for a species, we kept only one (species list and accession numbers are provided in Supplementary Data Table S2). We then extracted coding regions with OBITools (Boyer et al., 2015). We retrieved all coding regions and kept only those that were present at least in 50 % of all study species, resulting in 78 regions. When a coding region was not present, it was coded as missing data.

Codon-based alignments of each coding region were generated with MACSE (Ranwez et al., 2011). MACSE is able to handle frameshifts in the reading frames, which can be artefacts (e.g. sequencing errors) or of biological origin (it has been shown that reading frame shifts can be tolerated during translation; Farabaugh, 1996). Resulting alignments were visually checked. Poorly aligned regions were removed using Gblocks (Castresana, 2000) with the ‘codon’ option activated (i.e. selected blocks contain only complete codons). To check for anomalous sequences, we built maximum likelihood (ML) trees from each of the alignments with RAxML v.8 (Stamatakis, 2014), partitioning first, second and third codon positions separately, and performed bootstrap analyses with the automatic stopping criteria implemented with the option autoMRE. We detected two sequences in obvious spurious phylogenetic locations (rps2 in Lobularia maritima and rps12 in Arabis alpina). We removed those anomalous sequences from the alignments and realigned them following the steps described above. Definitive alignments were concatenated using FASconCAT (Kück and Meusemann, 2010). We used the ‘greedy’ algorithm implemented in PartitionFinder v.1.1.1 (Lanfear et al., 2012) to choose the optimal partition scheme (according to the Bayesian information criterion) for phylogenetic inference starting from an initial partition scheme based on gene and codon position. We ran 200 ML searches from different starting trees using RAxML with the concatenated dataset, applying the GTRCAT model, the rapid hill-climbing algorithm (Stamatakis et al., 2008) and the partition scheme selected with PartitionFinder (21 partitions). Bootstrap searches (1000 replicates) were executed separately using the standard bootstrap option in RAxML. Bootstrap results were drawn in the best ML tree obtained in the previous searches (Fig. 2). The same analyses were performed with a DNA matrix including only the coding regions present in Cytinus, with the aim of checking whether the missing data for Cytinus (i.e. genes that have been lost) have an impact on phylogenetic inference.
For each potential coding region, we tested for potential relaxed or intensified selection in Cytinus compared with related autotrophic taxa using the hypothesis-testing framework RELAX (Wertheim et al., 2015) available on the Datamonkey webserver (www.datamonkey.org/RELAX). Importantly, RELAX overcomes the statistical limitations of existing methods aiming to identify targets of natural selection. Most of these methods are based on the estimation of the ratio of non-synonymous (dN) and synonymous (dS) substitutions (ω = dN/dS) to test for deviations of the neutral expectation ω = 1. RELAX tests whether selection is relaxed or intensified in a subset of predefined test branches in a tree (compared with reference branches) with the selection intensity parameter k, which distinguishes whether selective strength on the test subset of branches is compressed towards or repelled away from neutrality compared with the reference subset. In the RELAX null model, k is constrained to 1 for all branches, whereas in the alternative one it is allowed to differ between reference and test branches. A likelihood-ratio test is implemented to accept or reject the alternative model, and values of the Akaike information criterion with correction for finite sample size (AICc) are also provided. For both models, three categories of ω are estimated (one for sites under purifying selection, ω ≪ 1; another for nearly neutral ones, ω ≃ 1; and a third for sites under diversifying selection, ω ≫ 1), together with the relative proportion of sites they represent. Additionally, RELAX fits the partitioned MG94xREV model for descriptive purposes and to provide a goodness-of-fit reference for the hypothesis-testing framework: in this model separate ω distributions are estimated for test and reference branches without accounting for the selection intensity parameter.

RELAX requires a priori specification of the test and reference branches. Because our a priori hypothesis was that some coding regions might have experienced a different selective pressure in Cytinus because of parasitism, we set the Cytinus branch as the test one. All RELAX analyses were run only with Malvales (plus an outgroup from Brassicales, Carica papaya) because exploratory analyses with the PAML (phylogenetic analysis by maximum likelihood) package (Yang, 2007; results not shown) with all Malvidae taxa included in the phylogenetic analyses yielded very high values of ω in very short branches, which is an indication that too divergent sequences are being compared. The analyses were run providing as input the best ML tree obtained with RAxML, as described in the previous section, after pruning all non-Malvales taxa except Carica.

As a complement to RELAX analyses, we also fitted site and branch-site codon models implemented in the software Codeml included in the package PAML v4.8 (Yang, 2007). These models estimate rates of synonymous and non-synonymous substitutions (dS and dN) and the ω ratio (dN/dS), taking into account potential rate differences in individual codon sites (site models) and also in specific lineages (branch-site models). Full methodological details are provided in Supplementary Data Methods.
Reference strains of C. albicans (ATCC 90028), Candida parapsilosis (ATCC 22019), C. parapsilosis (CBS1954), and C. parapsilosis (CBS6318) were used in this study. A total of 171 candidemia episodes were recorded among 111 patients at the seven major hospitals in Kuwait during January 2011 to July 2013. Of these, first blood culture C. albicans isolates from 102 patients were available for fingerprinting studies. Additionally, repeat (duplicate) bloodstream C. albicans isolates from six (patient no. 2, 5, 26, 60, 73, and 92) patients and nine surveillance cultures from six (patient no. 26, 33, 48, 53, 73, and 83) patients were also included. Blood and other clinical specimens were collected at various hospitals across Kuwait after obtaining verbal consent from patients as part of routine patient care for the isolation of fungal pathogens. The isolates were sub-cultured on Sabouraud dextrose agar medium for identification and antifungal susceptibility testing and data were analyzed anonymously. The consent procedure and the study were approved by the Joint Committee for the Protection of Human Subjects in Research, Health Sciences Center, Kuwait University and Ministry of Health, Kuwait.

The age of the patients ranged from newly born to 106 years. Ninety patients were Kuwaiti nationals while only 12 patients were expatriates originating from four different countries (Supplementary Table 1). Majority (70, 69%) of the patients were adults while 24 of the 32 pediatric patients were neonates. The highest number of C. albicans were analyzed from Mubarak Al-Kabeer Hospital (n = 27) followed by Maternity Hospital (n = 21), Ibn-Sina Hospital (n = 17), Farwaniya Hospital (n = 14), Al-Sabah Hospital (n = 8), Jahra Hospital (n = 8) and Amiri Hospital (n = 7). Only three (Maternity Hospital, Ibn-Sina Hospital and Al-Sabah Hospital) of these hospitals are within 1 km of each other while the remaining hospitals are situated >10 km apart. All clinical isolates were initially identified as C. albicans by commercial CHROMagar Candida and Vitek2 yeast identification system (bioMérieux, Marcy-lEtoile, France). Genomic DNA from each isolate was prepared as described previously (Ahmad et al., 2004). The identity of each isolate was confirmed by duplex PCR targeting the ITS region of rDNA and/or by DNA sequencing of rDNA, as described previously (Ahmad et al., 2012).
The susceptibility of C. albicans isolates against antifungal drugs, amphotericin B (AMB), fluconazole (FLU), voriconazole (VOR), and caspofungin (CFG) was determined by E-test (AB Biodisk, Solna, Sweden) on RPMI agar (supplemented with 2% glucose and buffered with MOPS, 0.165 M, pH 7.0) plates according to manufacturer's recommendations and as described previously (Asadzadeh et al., 2008). Briefly, each isolate was resuspended in sterile normal saline and the turbidity was adjusted to 0.5 McFarland unit. The plates were inoculated with the uniform suspension by using a cotton swab, Etest strips were applied, the plates were incubated at 35°C and read after 24 h. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values (μg/ml) were recorded for each drug and MIC50 and MIC90 values were also calculated. The revised interpretive susceptibility breakpoints as recommended by Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) were used for FLU (≤2 μg/ml, susceptible; 4 μg/ml, susceptible dose-dependent and ≥8 μg/ml, resistant), VOR (≤0.125 μg/ml, susceptible; 0.25–0.5 μg/ml, intermediate and ≥1 μg/ml, resistant) and CFG (≤0.25 μg/ml, susceptible; 0.5 μg/ml, intermediate and ≥1 μg/ml, resistant) (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute, 2012). Due to lack of defined breakpoints for AMB, an isolate showing MIC ≤1.0 μg/ml was considered as susceptible. Quality control was ensured by testing C. albicans ATCC 90028 and C. parapsilosis ATCC 22019, as recommended by CLSI.
A total of seven (AAT1, ACC1, ADP1, MPI1, SYA1, VPS13, and ZWF1b) housekeeping gene fragments recommended as an international standard for C. albicans MLST were used, as described previously (Bougnoux et al., 2003). The oligonucleotide primers (sequences of primers are publicly available at the C. albicans MLST database homepage (http://pubmlst.org/calbicans/) were synthesized and used for PCR amplification of the seven genes. Amplification of each gene fragment was performed by PCR using genomic DNA from each isolate, as described previously (Bougnoux et al., 2003). The amplicons were purified by using PCR product purification kit according to the instructions supplied by the kit manufacturer (Qiagen). Both strands were sequenced by using BigDye terminator DNA sequencing kit (ABI Prism BigDye terminator v3.1, Applied Biosystems) using the same primers as used for PCR amplification for each DNA fragment. The sequencing products were processed and loaded on the capillaries of the DNA sequencer (ABI Prism 3130xl Genetic Analyser) as directed by the manufacturer of the automated DNA sequencer (Applied Biosystems) and as described previously (Asadzadeh et al., 2015). Each allele profile was checked in both forward and reverse sequence by using Clustal omega (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalo/) and each sequence chromatogram was reviewed for heterozygous (two equally strong and overlayed fluorescence peaks) nucleotide positions. The allele number and diploid sequence type (DST) for each isolate was assigned according to C. albicans database. The allelic profiles that could not be assigned to an existing DST were consequently added to the MLST database (http://pubmlst.org/calbicans/).

Based on the allele number for the seven gene fragments for each isolate, a dendrogram was constructed by using BioNumerics v7.5 software (Applied Maths, Sint-Martens-Latem, Belgium) and standard unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) settings. The genetic relationship between the genotypes was studied by constructing a minimum spanning tree. The isolates were considered belonging to the same DST when they contained the same alleles for all seven loci. A cluster was defined as the same DST causing bloodstream infection in two or more candidemia patients.
Cluster C. albicans isolates with identical MLST-based genotype (DST) and epidemiological linkage with respect to their isolation from the same hospital within a period of 60 days were further analyzed by AFLP analysis. A total of eight C. albicans isolates in four clusters (2 isolates in each), all isolated from candidemia patients in 2011, were used. The AFLP analysis was carried out as described in detail previously (Illnait-Zaragozí et al., 2012). Briefly, 50 ng of genomic DNA was mixed with restriction-ligation mixture containing restriction enzymes EcoR1 and MseI (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA, USA) and their corresponding complementary adaptors. Prior to further use, the restriction-ligation reaction was diluted by adding 80 μl of 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.3) buffer and one microliter of the diluted product was used for amplification in a total volume of 25 μl by using the selective primers EcoR1 (5′-FLU-GACTGCGTACCAATTCAC-3′) and MseI (5′-GATGAGTCCTGACTAAC-3′) (Illnait-Zaragozí et al., 2012). One microliter of a 10-fold dilution of amplified products was added to a mixture of 8.9 μl water and 0.1 μl LIZ600 internal size marker (Applied Biosystems) and the contents were loaded for fragment analysis on an ABI 3500xL Genetic Analyzer according to the instructions of the manufacturer (Applied Biosystems). C. albicans reference strain (ATCC 90028) was used as a control and three reference strains (ATCC22019, CBS1954, and CBS6318) of C. parapsilosis were used as an out group. Raw data were analyzed by using BioNumerics v6.6 software and a dendrogram was generated using standard Pearson and unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) settings. A cut-off value of ≤95% similarity index among AFLP patterns was used for defining a distinct genotype (Asadzadeh et al., 2015).
Categorical variables were expressed as absolute number. Statistical analysis was performed using chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as appropriate and probability levels <0.05 by the two-tailed test were considered as statistically significant. Statistical analyses were performed using WinPepi software ver. 3.8 (PEPI for Windows, Microsoft Inc., Redmond, WA, USA).
HeLa 229 cells [American Type Culture Collection (ATCC); Manassas, VA; CCL-2.1] were cultured at 37°C with 5% CO2 in biotin-free DMEM (HyClone/Thermo Scientific, Logan, UT) supplemented with 10% (routine culture) or 1% fetal bovine serum (experiments involving biotinylation) (FBS; HyClone) as indicated and 10 μg/ml gentamicin (Gibco-BRL/Life Technologies; Grand Island, NY). HeLa cells were used to propagate Chlamydia trachomatis serovar L2 (LGV 434) for purification using established protocols (Caldwell et al., 1981; Scidmore, 2005). Chlamydial titers were determined using conventional protocols to establish multiplicities of infection (m.o.i.), which are based on inclusion forming units (i.f.u.) and determined in HeLa cells as previously described (Furness et al., 1960; Scidmore, 2005). HeLa cells and density-gradient purified C. trachomatis strains are routinely tested for Mycoplasma spp.
All primers used in these cloning projects are listed in Table ​Table1.1. pcDNA3 APEX2-NES was a gift from Alice Ting (Addgene plasmid # 49386) (Lam et al., 2015). APEX2 contains a single N-terminal FLAG tag. To generate Inc-APEX2 fusion constructs, PCR was used to introduce restriction sites. Q5 site-directed mutagenesis (NEB, Ipswich, MA) was used to remove an internal AgeI site by creating a synonymous mutation in APEX2. The PCR products were cloned in frame into the gfp site of pASK_GFP_mKate2_L2 (pASK_L2) (kind gift of Dr. P. Scott Hefty, Wickstrum et al., 2013) to create IncF-APEX2, IncATM-APEX2, IncAFL-APEX2 and APEX2 only constructs (schematic of constructs found in Supplemental Figure 1) using previously described conditions (Moore et al., 2011; Ouellette et al., 2015). Final constructs were transformed into dam-/dcm- E. coli. All constructs were confirmed by sequencing (Eurofins MWG Operon, Hunstville, AL).
Transformations were performed as described previously (Wang et al., 2011; Mueller and Fields, 2015; Ouellette et al., 2015). Transformants were then plaque purified as described elsewhere (Matsumoto et al., 1998; Wang et al., 2011). Localization of IncF-APEX2, IncATM-APEX2, or APEX2 in chlamydiae was performed by plating HeLa cells on coverslips in a 24-well plate at 1 × 105 per well and infecting with the transformed strain in the presence of 2 U/mL penicillin (IncF-APEX2, IncATM-APEX2) or 1 U/mL penicillin (IncAFL-APEX2, APEX2) and 1 μg/mL cycloheximide. Penicillin and cycloheximide were present for all experiments to preserve the integrity of our transformants and to minimize host cell background, respectively. At 7 h post-infection (hpi), varying concentrations of anhydrotetracycline (aTc) were added and samples were fixed at the indicated times in methanol for 5 min at room temperature and stained by indirect immunofluorescence.
HeLa cells were seeded onto 12 mm coverslips 18 h before infection with appropriate Ctr serovar L2 transformant or wild type bacteria. At indicated times post-infection, following 5 min methanol fixation, coverslips were incubated with antibodies in Table ​Table22 to visualize construct expression (mouse anti-M2-FLAG), the inclusion membrane (rabbit anti-IncA), and organisms (guinea pig anti-Ctr L2, rabbit anti-Ctr L2), followed by incubation with the appropriate secondary antibody conjugated to DyLight fluors (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories; West Grove, PA). Biotinylated proteins were detected using streptavidin conjugated to Alexa Fluor 488 (Pierce/Thermo, Rockford, IL). Coverslips were mounted on glass microscope slides using Prolong Gold mounting reagent (Life Technologies). Images were acquired using an Olympus BX60 with a 40x or 60x objective and a Nikon DS-Qi1MC digital camera or Olympus Fluoview 1000 Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope (60x objective and 2x digital magnification).
HeLa cell monolayers were infected (m.o.i. 0.8) with Ctr serovar L2 transformants encoding IncF-APEX2, IncATM-APEX2, APEX2 or wild type bacteria by centrifugation at 400 × g for 15 min at room temperature (RT) in DMEM supplemented with 1% FBS containing 2 U/mL penicillin (Ctr L2 IncF-APEX2 and Ctr L2 IncATM APEX2) or 1 U/mL penicillin (Ctr L2 APEX2) and 1 μg/mL cycloheximide and then incubated at 37°C, 5% CO2. At 7 hpi, transformants were either induced or not with 0.1 or 5 nM aTc. After 36 hpi, cells were fixed as above and coverslips were processed for indirect immunofluorescence. Inclusion diameter was measured using NIS elements Basic Research version 3.22 software (Nikon). Data shown are representative of two independent experiments where a minimum of 100 inclusions/coverslip were evaluated. Inclusion diameter mean and standard error of the mean were graphed using GraphPad Prism 7.0a. A one-way ANOVA with Tukey's multiple comparisons test was performed to test for statistical significance.
HeLa cells were infected with Ctr L2 transformants encoding IncF-APEX2, IncATM-APEX2 or APEX2 as above. Expression of the APEX2 fusion proteins (or APEX2 alone) was induced for expression or not in the transformants with 0.1, 1, or 5 nM aTc in duplicate at 7 hpi. To visualize inclusion formation, at 24 hpi one replicate was fixed and processed for immunofluorescence to detect construct expression, chlamydial inclusions, and organisms. Infectious progeny produced were harvested at 24 hpi from duplicate wells, centrifuged 20,000 × g for 30 min, and serial dilutions in sucrose phosphate (2SP) buffer were re-infected onto HeLa cells in duplicate, essentially as previously described (Kabeiseman et al., 2013; Lucas et al., 2015). Cells were incubated at 37°C, 5% CO2 for 15 min, then 2SP was replaced with DMEM + 1% FBS containing 2 U/mL penicillin (Ctr L2 IncF-APEX2 and IncATM-APEX2) or 1 U/mL penicillin (Ctr L2 APEX2 only) and 1 μg/mL cycloheximide. At 24 h post-secondary infection, cells were fixed in methanol and processed for indirect immunofluorescence with rabbit or guinea pig anti-Ctr L2 to distinguish aberrant vs. normal organisms. A minimum of 100 inclusions was counted per coverslip and averaged. Three individual experiments were performed for each dataset, except for 1 nM aTc induction, which was performed as two separate experiments only. The percent of inclusions containing aberrant organisms out of total number of inclusions counted was plotted using GraphPad Prism ver. 7.0a and reported as mean and standard error of the mean. A two-way ANOVA with Tukey's multiple comparisons post-test was performed to test for statistical significance.
HeLa cells were infected with Ctr L2 transformants encoding IncF-APEX2, IncATM-APEX2 as above. Transformants were either induced or not with 0.1 or 5 nM aTc at 7 hpi. 1.5 h prior to imaging, cells were labeled with 1 μM 6-((N-(7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1, 3-diazol-4-yl)amino)hexanoyl)sphingosine (C6-NBD-ceramide); (Life Technologies) in DMEM +0.06% BSA for 20 min at 37°C, and excess label was removed via back-exchange with DMEM containing 0.6% BSA for an hour at 37°C as described previously (Hackstadt et al., 1995; Moore, 2012; Kabeiseman et al., 2013; Lucas et al., 2015). Fluorescent live cell images were acquired by mounting the coverslips onto glass slides, as previously described (Moore, 2012), and imaging at 30-40 ms exposure times with a Nikon DS-Qi1Mc camera mounted on an Olympus BX60 fluorescent scope (60x magnification). Seven to ten fields of view were taken from duplicate coverslips in two independent experiments. The fluorescent intensity (integrated density) and area of the inclusion were determined with ImageJ v1.48 (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD). Mean and standard error of the mean were calculated and graphed using GraphPad Prism 7.0a software. An ordinary one-way ANOVA with Tukey's multiple comparisons post-hoc test was performed to test for statistical significance.
For microscopic confirmation of Inc-APEX2 constructs' ability to biotinylate the inclusion membrane, HeLa cells plated in 24-well plates were infected with Ctr L2 transformants (m.o.i. 0.8) as above in DMEM supplemented with 1% FBS. HeLa cells were grown in biotin-free media (DMEM + 1% FBS) prior to infection. Ctr L2 IncF-APEX2 and IncATM-APEX2 were induced with aTc at 7 hpi. At 23.5 hpi, labeling was performed essentially as previously described (Martell et al., 2012; Lam et al., 2015), and at 24 hpi, coverslips were fixed and processed for indirect immunofluorescence.

To determine proteins that were biotinylated by IncF-APEX2, HeLa cells were seeded into a 6-well plate in DMEM + 1% FBS and allowed to grow overnight. To monitor construct expression and biotinylation, coverslips are placed in 2 out of 6 wells of the 6-well plate. The cells were infected with Ctr L2 IncF-APEX2 (m.o.i. 0.75) and induced with 0.2 nM aTc at 7 hpi. At 23–26 hpi, 150 μM clastolactacystin β-lactone (clastolactacystin) (Santa Cruz biotechnology, Dallas, TX) (Johnson et al., 2015) was added to each well, and plates were incubated at 37°C 5% CO2 for an additional 30 min prior to biotinylation: at 23.5–26.5 hpi, monolayers were incubated with 1.5 mM biotinyl-tryamide (aka biotin-phenol) (AdipoGen, San Diego, CA) for 30 min at 37°C and 5% CO2. At 24–27 hpi, the labeling process was catalyzed by the addition of 3 mM H2O2 in DPBS for 1 min at RT with gentle rocking. The reaction was quenched by 3 washes at room temperature with 10 mM sodium ascorbate, 10 mM sodium azide, and 5 mM Trolox, all in DPBS. Coverslips were removed and fixed, and remaining cells were scraped into DPBS and centrifuged at 700 × g for 10 min at 4°C, and the pelleted cells were resuspended in cell lysis buffer [50 mM TrisHCl, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% sodium deoxycholate, 10 mM sodium ascorbate (Sigma), 10 mM sodium azide (Sigma), 5 mM trolox (Acros organics), 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), 5% TritonX-100 (Sigma Aldrich), 1X HALT protease inhibitor cocktail (Pierce/Thermo), universal nuclease (Pierce), and 150 μM clastolactacystin (Santa Cruz biotechnology, Dallas, TX). Samples were sonicated three times at 30% amplitude for 20 sec and incubated on ice for 90 min, vortexing every 15 min. Lysates were centrifuged at 14,000 × g for 10 min at 4°C. Supernatants were saved, and pellets were resuspended in the cell lysis buffer described above.

Protein concentrations were quantified prior to affinity purification using EZQ protein quantification (Life technologies, Molecular probes) and normalized. Normalized lysates were added to equilibrated streptavidin magnetic beads (Pierce) and rotated for 90 min at RT. Unbound fractions of the lysate were retained and beads were washed twice by rotating with lysis buffer containing 500 mM NaCl for 5 min at RT, followed by one wash with 2 M urea in 10 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0 and 2 washes with RIPA buffer. Proteins were eluted from streptavidin magnetic beads by 5 min denaturation at 65°C in 2x Laemmli sample buffer containing 0.5 mM biotin (Sigma). Samples were resolved by SDS-4-20%PAGE (BioRad), followed by transfer to PVDF (0.45 μm, Thermo Scientific) and Western blotting using the indicated primary antibodies (Table ​(Table2)2) and appropriate secondary antibodies conjugated to IRDye 680LT, IRDye CW, or a streptavidin-IRDye 680LT conjugate (LiCor Biosciences, Lincoln, NE). PVDF membranes were imaged using Odyssey CLx and processed using Image Studio version 5.2 (LiCor Biosciences). After Western blotting, some PVDF membranes were also Coomassie stained using the following protocol. Membranes were rinsed with 100% methanol followed by one wash in Tris-buffered saline with 0.1% tween 20 (TBS-T) for 5 min at RT. Membranes were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250 (BioRad) for 2.5 min at RT and then destained with two consecutive washes of 50:43:7, methanol:dH2O:acetic acid and 90:10 methanol: acetic acid, respectively. Air-dried membranes were imaged using GeneSnap software (SynGene).
All Western blots were analyzed using Image Studio Version 5.2 software (LiCor Biosciences). Graphed data (averages and standard deviation or standard error of the mean) were produced using GraphPad Prism 7 software (GraphPad Software, La Jolla, CA). All figures were constructed using Adobe Photoshop elements 14 and Adobe Photoshop CS5 (Adobe Systems Incorporated, San Jose, CA). Any modifications to images were limited to adjustment of color balance in fluorescent images, or brightness and contrast in Western blot images. The inclusion sizes were measured using NIS elements basic research Version 3.22 (Nikon).
Cultured dermal human fibroblasts or U2OS or HeLa cells were grown in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (Sigma D6429) supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (Sigma), 1× nonessential amino acids, and 50 µg/mL uridine (Thermo Fisher Scientific) at 37 °C in humidified 5% CO2. Access to samples that were excess to diagnostic requirements and were approved for research was covered by the license “Role of mitochondrial abnormalities in disease” (ref. 2002/205) issued by Newcastle and North Tyneside Local Research Ethics Committee. For FUNCAT experiments, cells were first seeded onto glass coverslips and cultured for 1 to 2 d. In vivo labeling of mitochondrial translation products was performed by pulsing cells with methionine-free DMEM containing the methionine analog HPG (Jena Bioscience), while cytosolic translation was inhibited with 50 µg/mL cycloheximide. The TACO1 cDNA spanning the entire open reading frame (from ref. sequence NM_016360.4, nucleotides 157 to 1080) was fused upstream and in frame of the FLAG sequence into pcDNA5/FRT/TO. This, together with pOG44, was used to transfect U2OS Flp-In cells using SuperFect Transfection Reagent (Qiagen), followed by HygromycinB (100 µg/mL) selection for 14 d. Expression was induced with 1 µg/mL tetracycline. Cells were lysed after 24 h induction, and proteins were separated on a 12% Tris-glycine sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) followed by immunoblotting. For immunofluorescence, cells were fixed after 24 h induction.

When inhibiting mitochondrial translation, 100 µg/mL chloramphenicol was also added during the pulse period. If a chase was performed, methionine-free DMEM was replaced with full medium. Cells were prepermeabilized with 0.005% digitonin in mitochondria-protective buffer (MPB; 10 mM Hepes/KOH, 10 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, and 300 mM sucrose in H2O, pH 7.5) for 80 s at room temperature to remove unincorporated HPG before being fixed in prewarmed 8% formaldehyde in MPB for 7 min (SI Appendix, Figs. S2 and S3). Cells were fully permeabilized with 0.5% (vol/vol) Triton X-100 in PBS (137 mM NaCl, 2.68 mM KCl, and 10 mM Na2HPO4, pH 7.4) and subsequently blocked with 5% (wt/vol) BSA for 10 min. Pulse-labeled mitochondrial proteins were detected with a copper-catalyzed azide–alkyne cycloaddition [600 μM copper sulfate, 1.2 mM BTTAA, 40 µM picolyl Alexa Fluor 555 (CLK-091-1) or 594 (CLK-1296-1) azide, and 2 mM sodium ascorbate in PBS; all Jena Bioscience] click-chemistry reaction for 40 min. Immunocytochemistry was used to colabel specific mitochondrial targets of interest. This involved incubation with a primary antibody diluted in 5% BSA for 1 h at room temperature, followed by species-specific Alexa Fluor 532 (Thermo Fisher A-11009) or ATTO647N (Sigma M8645) secondary antibodies diluted 1:200 in 5% BSA for 40 min. Nuclei were stained with Hoechst for 5 min, and cells were mounted with ProLong Glass Antifade mountant. Primary antibody details are listed in SI Appendix, Table S1.

Confocal Imaging and Three-Dimensional STED Nanoscopy.
Confocal imaging and three-dimensional (3D) STED nanoscopy were performed on a Leica TCS SP8 gSTED 3× microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with white light lasers, HC PL APO 100×/1.40 Oil STED WHITE objective, and 63×/1.40 Oil HC Pl Apo CS2 objective for confocal imaging. A voxel size of (35 to 40) × (35 to 40) × 130 nm (xyz) for ×63 confocal and (10 to 20) × (10 to 20) × 100 nm (xyz) nm for STED images was used. The fluorophore Alexa Fluor 532 was excited at 527 nm, and STED was performed at 660 nm for super-resolution imaging. Alexa Fluor 555 was excited at 555 nm, and STED was performed at 660 nm. Alexa Fluor 594 was excited at 590 nm and ATTO647N at 646 nm, while STED was performed at 775 nm for both fluorophores. Images were deconvolved and, where indicated, rendered into computer-generated 3D surface maps, using Huygens software (Scientific Volume Imaging).

Image Analysis.
In each case, unless otherwise stated, 5 to 12 images were analyzed from a single representative experiment that was repeated at least three times with similar results. For determining amount and distribution of mitochondrial protein synthesis within whole-cell confocal images, Columbus software (PerkinElmer) was used on raw images. A mitochondrial translation coefficient was determined by multiplying HPG surface area by mean fluorescence intensity, and this was normalized to mitochondrial surface area (defined by labeling of a general mitochondrial marker such as ATP5I) to give mitochondrial protein synthesis per mitochondrial area. For characterizing other spatial parameters or analyzing STED data, deconvolution and pixel-based colocalization was applied (Scientific Volume Imaging). The colocalization analysis utilized the nonparametric Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient to determine correlation between fluorophore intensities, while Manders’ colocalization coefficients (M1 and M2) were used to calculate proportions of cooccurrence between 0 and 1, which we have described as a percentage with 1 equal to 100%. Where a value for the mean is given followed by a plus/minus value, this represents the SD. To determine any significant differences between populations, the nonparametric Mann–Whitney U (Wilcoxon rank-sum) test was performed with a continuity correction where necessary as implemented in the wilcox.test function in R (47).

Bioorthogonal Noncanonical Amino Acid Tagging: Cell Culture and Click-Chemistry Labeling of Mitochondrial Translation in Human Cell Lines.
Wild-type Hek293 cells were grown in DMEM (Sigma D6429) supplemented with 10% FCS, 1× nonessential amino acids, and 50 µg/mL uridine (37 °C, 5% humidified CO2). Medium was refreshed 1 d prior to the experiment, and cells harvested at 50 to 80% confluency. Cells were depleted of methionine by a warm PBS wash and incubated with methionine-free DMEM (20 min) before addition of inhibitors (5 to 10 min) to block either cytosolic (50 µg/mL emetine) or mitochondrial (100 µg/mL chloramphenicol) protein synthesis. HPG was then added (500 µM final concentration) and cells incubated for 2.3 h under normal culture conditions, after which mitochondria were prepared as previously reported (48). Mitochondria were solubilized with 0.4% (wt/vol) SDS at 40 µg protein/60 µL in PBS for 10 min at room temperature, followed by centrifugation (20,000 × g, 5 min). The solubilized proteins in the supernatant were used for the click reaction in a final volume of 120 µL (0.2% wt/vol final SDS concentration) with the following components added, in order, to the indicated final concentrations: 20 µM picolyl-biotin-azide (Jena Bioscience CLK-1167-5), 1.2 mM BTTAA (Jena Bioscience, CLK-067-100), 600 µM CuSO4, and 5 mM sodium ascorbate. The click reaction was incubated for 60 min at 25 °C and terminated by standard methanol/chloroform protein precipitation. Precipitated proteins were resolubilized in 1× Bis-Tris SDS-PAGE sample buffer and separated on 12% Bis-Tris acrylamide (29:1 Acryl:Bis) gels using 1× MOPS running buffer supplemented with 5 mM sodium bisulfite as a reducing agent. Proteins were transferred onto polyvinylidene fluoride membranes and blocked (5% bovine serum albumen, tween tris-buffered saline) prior to incubation with Streptavidin-HRP and visualization by enhanced chemiluminescence.
Male OLETF rats (Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Tokushima, Japan) were used at 17 weeks of age. Rats were kept at 22°C–25°C under a 12-hour light–dark cycle, and they had free access to chlorinated water and commercial chow (CRF-1; Oriental Yeast Co, Ltd, Tokyo, Japan). All animal experiments were performed in accordance with the guiding principles for the care and use of laboratory animals, which have been approved by the Japanese Pharmacological Society (Tokyo, Japan).
The N-type and L-type CCB, Cil (Ajinomoto Co, Inc., Tokyo, Japan), the L-type CCB, Aml (Lek d. d., Kolodvorska, Slovenia), and Val (Livzon Group Changzhou Kony Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Changzhou, People’s Republic of China) were used as antihypertensive drugs. Each antihypertensive drug was initially dissolved in 0.5% hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA).
Seventeen-week-old OLETF rats were divided into the following six groups: vehicle group (vehicle; number [n] =8); Cil group (2 mg/kg of Cil; n=8); Aml group (2 mg/kg of Aml; n=8); Val group (10 mg/kg of Val; n=8), Cil + Val group (combination of 2 mg/kg of Cil and 10 mg/kg of Val; n=8); and Aml + Val group (combination of 2 mg/kg of Aml and 10 mg/kg of Val; n=8). These groups were compared based on measurements of BP, body weight, urinary albumin excretion (UAE), and levels of glycohemoglobin (HbA1c), insulin, and blood glucose. The dosages were selected based on a preliminary examination. Rats were orally administered each drug for 22 weeks. Each drug was orally administered to the rats once a day every morning. Nineteen weeks after the start of drug administration, fasting venous blood samples were taken from the tail vein to assess blood glucose, insulin, HbA1c, and triglyceride levels. At the end of the study period, rats were anesthetized, blood was collected, and the heart and kidneys were quickly removed. Six Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats, which were treated identically to the vehicle group throughout the experimental period, served as the normal group.
Systolic BP was measured each week using the tail–cuff method and a Softron BP-98A BP meter (Softron Co, Ltd, Tokyo, Japan). Rats were introduced into a plastic wire holder and placed in a thermostatically warmed tube, which was maintained at 34°C–36°C during the measurements. The mean of three measurements was determined for each animal after environmental acclimation.
HbA1c values were measured using ion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HLC-723GHb VA1c2.2; Tosoh Corporation, Tokyo, Japan). For the measurements of the other biochemical parameters, blood samples were centrifuged (3,000× g) for 15 minutes. Plasma insulin was measured using an insulin enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit (Morinaga Institute of Biological Science, Inc., Kanagawa, Japan). Plasma glucose and triglyceride levels were determined using an autoanalyzer (Fuji Dri-Chem 5500; Fujifilm Corporation, Tokyo, Japan).
In order to measure the biochemical parameters, blood samples were centrifuged (1,000× g) for 15 minutes, and the plasma was stored at −80°C until analysis. PRA was determined using a radioimmunoassay system (Yamasa Shoyu Co, Ltd, Chiba, Japan), and Ang levels were purified by solid-phase extraction and measured using liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry.
The noradrenaline (NA) concentration in the renal cortex was measured as follows. Briefly, pieces of the renal cortex were homogenized in a 3.3-fold volume of ice-cold saline containing 0.1 N HCl, and after centrifugation (12,000× g at 4°C) for 30 minutes, NA levels in the supernatant were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography.
Rats were individually placed in metabolic cages, and urine samples were collected for 24 hours in order to determine UAE levels. Albumin concentrations were measured with a commercially available ELISA kit (Nephrat II; Exocell Inc., Philadelphia, PA, USA). Aldosterone levels were measured using an enzyme immunoassay system (Cayman Chemical Company, Ann Arbor, MI, USA).
The left kidney of each rat was fixed in fresh 10% formaldehyde and embedded in paraffin. Sections (3 μm thick) were stained with periodic acid–Schiff in order to assess glomerulosclerosis (GS). Fifty glomeruli in each specimen were examined. The severity of the lesions, according to the percentage of glomerular involvement, was observed under a light microscope (BX50; Olympus Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) with a blinded procedure and graded according to the following scale: 0 represented no lesions; 1+ represented an involvement of less than 25% of the glomerulus; 2+, 26%–50%; 3+, 51%–75%; and 4+, more than 76%.27 GS score was equal to the average value of the degree of each glomerular damage (0 to 4+). The myocardium was fixed in 10% formalin and stained with hematoxylin and eosin or Masson’s trichrome in order to determine the myocyte cross-sectional dimensions and interstitial fibrosis. Analyses of the slides were performed in a blinded fashion with a light microscope (BX50), and the relative volume occupied by each element of the ventricle (myocardial fibers and fibrous tissue) was measured using a special ocular apparatus (WinROOF version 3.5; Mitani, Fukui, Japan).
Total ribonucleic acid (RNA) was isolated from renal cortical tissues with the RNeasy Mini kit (Qiagen GmbH, Hilden, Germany). One microgram of total RNA was reverse-transcribed using SuperScript® III (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Real-time quantitative reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction was performed with a 7500 Real-Time PCR System with SYBR® Green Master Mix (Applied Biosystems; Life Technologies) and sequence-specific primers. Primer sequences were as follows: renin (forward primer, 5′-TCTCTCCCAGAGGGTGCTAA-3′; reverse primer, 5′-TTGCCCTGGTAATGTTGAGG-3′), (pro)renin receptor (forward primer, 5′-CAT CCCTGGTGAGGAAGTCAAG-3′; reverse primer, 5′-CGCAAGGTTGTAGGGACTTTG-3′), ACE2 (forward primer, 5′-GTCGTGATGGGAACGGTAGT-3′; reverse primer, 5′-TTTCTCCTTTGCCAATGTCC-3′), ACE (forward primer, 5′-CGAATGTGCCATACATCAGG-3′; reverse primer, 5′-CCTGCTTCCTTGGATTGGTA-3′), and beta-actin (forward primer, 5′-AGATTACTGCCCTGGCTCCT-3′; reverse primer, 5′-CAGTGAGGCCAGGATAGAGC-3′). In addition, messenger RNA (mRNA) levels were normalized to beta-actin levels.
Data were expressed as means ± standard error of the mean. One-way analysis of variance, which was followed by Dunnett’s multiple-range test, was used to assess the differences between the vehicle group and the other OLETF rat groups. Parameters in the vehicle and normal groups were compared using unpaired t-tests. Differences were considered statistically significant when the probability values were less than 0.05
The vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors, heparin, and antithrombin were assessed in five commercially available PCCs. The procoagulant potential of the PCCs was assessed in plasma and whole blood from 4 healthy donors by means of classical coagulation assays, thrombin generation assay and thromboelastometry. In order to reflect coagulopathy, whole blood was diluted to 80, 60, 40, and 20% with Ringer’s lactate solution.
The following PCCs were applied: CoFact 500 I.E. (Sanquin, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; lot 10D29G321A), Beriplex P/N 250 (CSL Behring GmbH, Marburg, Germany; lot 56560111C), Prothromplex NF 600 (Baxter, Vienna, Austria; lot VNP5L003), Octaplex 500 (Octapharma, Vienna, Austria; lot A122C261A), and PPSB-human SD/Nano 600 (Octapharma Vienna, Austria; lot E137A262). Prior to testing, the lyophilised PCCs were reconstituted with sterile water according to the manufacturers instructions. Aliquots were stored at −80°C and thawed at −37°C for 10 min prior to application.
Written informed consent was obtained from all participants, and the study was approved by the local Medical Ethical Review Board azM/UM. Venous blood was collected from four healthy volunteers through antecubital venipuncture using 21-gauge needles, one discarding tube and four consecutive 3.2%(w/v) citrated Vacutainer glass tubes (Becton Dickinson, Plymouth, UK). Whole blood from each donor was pooled and for the global coagulation and thrombin generation assays, whole blood was diluted to 80, 60, 40, and 20% with Ringer’s lactate (RL, Fresenius, Bad Homburg, Germany) solution containing 3.2%(w/v) citrate. Undiluted and diluted whole blood aliquots were supplemented with one of the five PCC preparations to obtain 0.53 IU fIX/mL. This dose was based on the 35 IU PCC per kg body weight, as previously described and an average human weight of 85 kg with a total blood volume of 5.6 L [16]. 0.9%(w/v) saline solution was added as control. A subset was supplemented with fibrinogen (Haemocomplettan P, CSL Behring, Germany) to correct for the dilutional effect and to obtain a final fibrinogen concentration comparable to that of undiluted whole blood (100%). All blood dilution tubes were centrifuged for 5 min at 2,000×g, followed by a second step at 10,000×g for 10 min. Aliquots of (diluted) plasma were snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C until analysis. For thromboelastometry, whole blood was diluted to 70, and 40% with RL solution containing 3.2%(w/v) citrate directly after collection followed by addition of 0.9%(w/v) saline solution or each of the five PCCs at a dose of 0.53 UI fIX/mL. Again, a subset was supplemented with fibrinogen to reach the baseline values of undiluted whole blood (100%).
All coagulation assays were performed according to the manufacturers instructions. Factors II, VII, and X were assessed through a one-stage clotting assay using reagents TromborelS (Siemens, Marburg, Germany), corresponding factor deficient plasmas (Siemens) and SHP (Siemens) as calibrator. Factor IX was assessed by a one-stage clotting assay with ActinFS (Siemens) as activator and SHP (Siemens) as calibrator and the corresponding factor IX-deficient plasma (Siemens). Antithrombin levels were measured by the Berichrom Antithrombin III assay, protein C:act by the Berichrom Protein C Assay (Siemens), free protein S by the HemosIL Free Protein S assay (Instrumentation Laboratory, Breda, The Netherlands), heparin was assessed by means of the anti Xa levels using the BIOPHEN Heparin Anti-Xa (Hyhen Biomed, Nueville-sur-Oise, France), the prothrombin time (PT) by Innovin (Siemens) reagent, the aPTT by ActinFSL reagent (Siemens), and fibrinogen through the Thrombin (Siemens) reagent. All analysis were performed on a CA-7000 Sysmex (Siemens) system.
Thrombin generation in human platelet-poor plasma was measured by means of the Calibrated Automated Thrombogram method (Thrombinoscope BV, Maastricht, The Netherlands), which employs a low affinity fluorogenic substrate for thrombin (Z-Gly-Gly-Arg-AMC) to continuously monitor thrombin activity in clotting plasma. Measurements were conducted on 80 µL human PPP in a total volume of 120 µL (20 µL fluorogenic substrate, Calcium chloride (FluCa) and 20 µL trigger reagent containing tissue factor (TF) and phospholipids (PL)). The following experimental conditions were used: 0 pM TF with 4 µM PL at 20∶20∶60 mol% PS:PE:PC, 1 pM TF with 4 µM PL, and 5 pM TF with 4 µM PL. In order to correct for inner-filter effects and substrate consumption, each thrombin generation measurement was calibrated against the fluorescence curve obtained in a sample from the same plasma (80 µL), added with a fixed amount of thrombin-α2-macroglobulin complex (20 µL Thrombin Calibrator, Thrombinoscope BV) and 20 µL FluCa. Fluorescence was read in a Fluoroskan Ascent reader (Thermo Labsystems OY, Helsinki, Finland) equipped with a 390/460 filter set and thrombin generation curves were calculated with the Thrombinoscope software (Thrombinoscope BV).

Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM, TEM International, Munich, Germany) analysis was performed using the following standard assays according to the manufacturer’s recommendations at 37°C: InTem (partial thromboplastin and ellagic acid) and ExTem (tissue factor). The following parameters were obtained: clotting time (CT in seconds), maximum clot firmness (MCF in mm), and the alpha angle in degrees. All measurements were performed in duplicate.
For graphical purposes and statistical analysis, GraphPad Prism (Version 5.01; GraphPad Software Inc, La Jolla, CA) was used. Data are presented as median with inter-quartile ranges (IQRs) or median with range (min-max) based on duplicate measurements from four healthy individuals. Differences between undiluted and 80, 60, 40, and 20% dilution with RL solution were analyzed for significance by means of the Friedman Test (ANOVA for repeated measurement and nonparametric distribution) with a two-tailed significance level of alpha equals 0.05. Differences between groups were assessed through Mann-Whitney test with a two-tailed significance level of alpha equals 0.05. For the clearness of data presentation not all significant differences are displayed.
Anti–O-GlcNAc (clone RL-2, ab2739), anti–ubiquitin-associated protein 2-like (UBAP2L; ab138309), anti-NUP153 (ab24700), anti-NUP62 (ab96134), and anti-ELF1 (ab171813) were purchased from Abcam. Anti-NUP214 was purchased from Abcam (ab70497) or Abnova. Anti-IL-2–PE (559334) and anti-CD69–FITC (555530) were purchased from BD Biosciences. Anti–O-GlcNAc (clone CTD110.6, MMS-248R or 9875) was purchased from Covance and later Cell Signaling Technology. Anti-GAPDH (5174), anti-histone H2B (2934), anti-LCP1 (5350), anti-VIM (5741), anti–aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT; 5537), anti-HCLS1 (4503), anti-WNK1 (4979), anti-EWSR1 (11910), anti-ARID1A (12354), anti-MYPT1 (2634), anti-RUNX1 (4334), anti-SP1 (9389), and anti-NUP98 (2292) were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology. Anti-mouse IgM-FITC (11-5790-82) and IgM isotype control (14-4752-85) were purchased from eBioscience. Anti-mouse IgG–Alexa Fluor 647 (A21236) and anti-rabbit IgG–Alexa Fluor 488 (A11008) were purchased from Life Technologies. Anti–host cell factor 1 (HCFC1; ABD74) was purchased from Millipore. Anti-OGT (O6264) was purchased from Sigma.
Primary human T cells were isolated from leukocyte reduction shuttles obtained from anonymous donors at the Stanford Blood Center under institutional review board protocol. After purification by negative selection using RosetteSep (#15061; STEMCELL Technologies), T cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 (Life Technologies) supplemented with GlutaMAX, 10% FBS, and 1× penicillin/streptomycin in a humidified incubator at 37°C with 5% CO2. CH27 B cells were cultured similarly, with the exception that 2-ME was included in the culture medium at 0.1%.
Anti-CD3/CD28–coated beads were prepared by coating latex sulfate beads (5 μm, #S37227; Invitrogen) in PBS containing 0.1 mg/ml anti-CD3 (clone OKT3, #317304) and 0.2 mg/ml anti-CD28 (clone CD28.2, #302923; both from BioLegend) for 2 h at 37°C. Control beads were prepared in the same manner with isotype-control Abs. Primary human T cells were stimulated by incubating with beads at 2:1 ratio. For experiments involving intracellular cytokine staining, cells were stimulated in the presence of protein transport inhibitors (#00-4980; eBioscience). In the case of PMA/ionomycin stimulation, cells were treated with cell stimulation mixture plus protein transport inhibitors (#00-4975; eBioscience).
For whole-cell lysates, cells were washed once in cold PBS, and cell pellets were immediately lysed or flash frozen in liquid N2 and stored at −80°C prior to lysis. Cells were lysed in cold RIPA buffer (1% Nonidet P-40 [NP-40], 0.5% sodium deoxycholate, 0.1% SDS, 150 mM NaCl, 50 mM Tris [pH 8]) supplemented with protease inhibitors (#04-693-124-001; Roche complete with EDTA), 1 mM PMSF, and 2.5 μM PUGNAc (OGA inhibitor). IGEPAL CA-630 (Sigma-Aldrich) was used as a substitute for NP-40 in buffers in some cases.

For subcellular fractionation, cells were washed once in cold PBS and then resuspended in isotonic lysis buffer (10 mM Tris [pH 8], 2 mM MgCl2, 3 mM CaCl2, 300 mM sucrose). NP-40 was added to a final concentration of 0.5%, and plasma membrane lysis was allowed to proceed for 3 min on ice. Nuclei were pelleted for 5 min at 500 × g at 4°C. The supernatant, representing the crude cytosolic fraction, was supplemented with protease inhibitors and frozen at −80°C. Nuclei were washed once in isotonic lysis buffer and resuspended in extraction buffer (10 mM HEPES [pH 7.9], 0.75 mM MgCl2, 500 mM NaCl, 0.1 mM EDTA, 12.5% glycerol, 2.5 U/μl benzonase) for 30 min on ice with occasional vortexing. Nuclear extracts were centrifuged at 21,130 × g for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatant, representing the crude nuclear fraction, was supplemented with protease inhibitors, passed through a spin column filter (0.45 μm) to remove the beads, and frozen at −80°C. Upon thawing, both fractions were centrifuged at 21,130 × g to remove any insoluble material.

For immunoprecipitation, biotinylated proteins (see below) were resuspended in 1% SDS/50 mM Tris (pH 8) and diluted with four volumes of 1.25% NP-40/125 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris (pH 8). Anti-NUP214 was allowed to bind to magnetic protein A/G beads (Pierce) for 60 min at room temperature in TBST (50 mM Tris [pH 8], 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Tween 20). The charged beads were washed with TBST and incubated with the biotinylated proteins overnight at 4°C. The beads were washed three times with TBST and eluted with 1× SDS-PAGE sample buffer containing 2.5% 2-ME for 10 min at room temperature.

Equivalent amounts of protein were separated with 4–12% Bis-Tris gradient gels (Life Technologies) and blotted onto nitrocellulose. In the case of polyethylene glycol (PEG)-labeled proteins, 3–8% Tris-Acetate gels were used for enhanced resolution. After blocking in 3% milk or 3% BSA in TBST, primary Abs were added and incubated at room temperature for 1 h or overnight at 4°C in blocking buffer. Membranes were washed with TBST, and HRP-conjugated secondary reagents (goat anti-mouse IgG-HRP [Pierce 32430]; goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP [Pierce 32460]; or streptavidin-HRP [Pierce 21134]) were added for 1 h at room temperature in blocking buffer. Membranes were washed again and developed with ECL reagents (Pierce). Where needed, membranes were stripped for 15 min at 65°C with mild stripping buffer (200 mM glycine [pH 2.2], 1% Tween-20, 0.1% SDS), washed in TBST, reblocked, and reprobed as above.
To test the efficiency and specificity of β-elimination followed by Michael addition of DTT (BEMAD), 200 pmol of a synthetic O-GlcNAc peptide (gCREB, C33374) was spiked into a commercial mixture consisting of 200 pmol of four phosphopeptides and three unmodified peptides (P33357; both from Life Technologies). Peptides were subjected to mild performic acid oxidation, calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase (CIP; New England BioLabs) treatment, BEMAD, and thiol enrichment, as described below, with the exception that CIP was used at 0.2 U/μl. Half of the mixture was labeled with d0 DTT, whereas the other half was labeled with d6 DTT. Samples were analyzed by MALDI-TOF at the Beckman Protein and Nucleic Acid Facility.

To perform BEMAD on cell lysates, frozen cell pellets were resuspended in urea lysis buffer (8 M urea, 100 mM NaCl, 25 mM Tris [pH 8]) and incubated on ice for 20 min. Insoluble debris was pelleted by centrifugation, and the anti-CD3/CD28 or control beads were removed with 0.45-μm spin filters. After dilution with four volumes of 50 mM NH4HCO3, trypsin was added to 5 ng/ml, and proteins were digested overnight at 37°C in the presence of 1 μM PUGNAc. Digests were acidified with 0.5% trifluoroacetic acid, desalted with C18 columns (Waters), and dried in a speed-vac. To prevent labeling of cysteine residues, peptides were subjected to mild performic acid oxidation (3% formic acid/3% H2O2) (40) for 4 h at room temperature and then dried. In some cases, peptides were subjected to a crude fractionation by strong cation exchange (SCX), which was accomplished with SCX spin columns (Nest Group) and elution in stepwise gradients of 20, 50, 500, and 1000 mM KCl in loading buffer (5 mM KH2PO4/pH 3/20% acetonitrile), followed by desalting. To prevent labeling of phosphorylation sites, peptides were treated with CIP (0.4 U/μl in 100 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 50 mM NH4HCO3, pH 8) at 37°C for 4 h followed by desalting. To label O-GlcNAc sites, peptides were incubated in BEMAD buffer (1% triethylamine, 0.1% NaOH) for 2 h at 56°C in the presence of 20 mM light (d0) DTT or heavy (d6) DTT (1,4-DTT-1,1,2,3,4,4-d6, CDN Isotopes) as described previously (41, 42). The labeling reaction was quenched with 1% trifluoroacetic acid and the heavy and light labeling reactions were combined into a single aliquot for desalting. To purify DTT-labeled peptides, total peptides were resuspended in 500 μl of binding buffer (PBS, 1 mM EDTA) and added to thiopropyl Sepharose (Sigma). After binding for 2 h at room temperature, the resin was washed three times with column buffer. Elution was accomplished with two treatments of column buffer containing 20 mM DTT for 30 min each at room temperature. The released peptides were passed through a 0.2 μm spin filter, acidified, and desalted prior to mass spectrometry analysis.

For the β-N-acetylglucosaminidase treatment, corresponding SCX fractions from control and stimulated conditions were combined to equalize any differences in protein expression levels and then split into two equivalent aliquots, one of which was treated with β-N-acetylglucosaminidase (16 U in 100 μl reaction; NEB) overnight at 37°C, according to the manufacturer’s protocol. β-N-acetylglucosaminidase was then heat inactivated at 65°C for 10 min, and the procedure was continued with CIP treatment, as described.
For metabolic labeling, primary T cells were incubated with 40 μM tetraacetylated N-azidoacetylgalactosamine (Ac4GalNAz; Pierce) for 2 d, and then stimulated with beads in the presence of Ac4GalNAz for an additional 24 h. Cells were washed once in cold PBS and then flash frozen in liquid N2. Cell pellets were lysed in RIPA lysis buffer, as above. Cleared lysates were supplemented with additional SDS to 1%, and proteins (700 μg) were denatured for 10 min at 65°C, followed by biotinylation with 100 μM biotin phosphine (Pierce) overnight at room temperature.

To purify biotinylated proteins for mass spectrometry analysis, proteins were precipitated with methanol/chloroform to remove excess biotin reagent and then resolubilized in 1% SDS/50 mM Tris (pH 8). Proteins were diluted with four volumes of 1.25% NP-40, 50 mM Tris (pH 8), 125 mM NaCl and incubated with magnetic streptavidin beads (M-280 Dynabeads; Life Technologies) for 1.5 h at room temperature to capture biotinylated proteins. Beads were washed sequentially with 1% SDS/PBS, 8 M urea/100 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris (pH 8), 8 M urea/1 M NaCl/50 mM Tris (pH 8), 8 M urea/50 mM NH4HCO3, and PBS. An aliquot (10%) of the beads was treated with 6 M urea/2 M thiourea/2% SDS/15 mM biotin/PBS (pH 12) for 10 min at 95°C to release bound material for analysis by immunoblot to confirm capture of biotinylated protein. The remainder (90%) of the beads were resuspended in 8 M urea/50 mM NH4HCO3 and diluted with four volumes of 50 mM NH4HCO3 before adding ProteaseMAX surfactant to 0.03% and trypsin (both from Promega) to 5 ng/μl. After overnight digestion at 37°C, the supernatant containing tryptic peptides was recovered. Cysteines were reduced and alkylated by treatment with 5 mM DTT for 30 min at room temperature, 14 mM iodoacetamide for 30 min, and then an additional 5 mM DTT for 15 min. Trifluoroacetic acid was added to 0.5%, and the peptides were desalted with a C18 spin column (Nest Group) and dried. Peptides were resuspended in 5% formic acid/5% acetonitrile for analysis by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry.

For chemoenzymatic labeling, frozen cell pellets were resuspended in RIPA lysis buffer, and 200 μg of protein was labeled with the ClickIt O-GlcNAc Enzymatic Labeling Kit (Life Technologies), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. PNGase F (500 U; NEB) was added, and the labeling reaction was incubated for an additional 1 h at 37°C. Proteins were precipitated and resolubilized in 1% SDS/50 mM Tris (pH 8). Biotinylation was accomplished by treating proteins with 100 μM phosphine biotin (Pierce) at room temperature overnight. PEGylation was accomplished by treating proteins with 15 mM iodoacetamide for 30 min at room temperature, followed by 100 μM DBCO-5K PEG (Kerafast) overnight at room temperature. To purify biotinylated proteins with streptavidin beads for immunoblot analysis, proteins were separated from excess biotin reagent by precipitation and resolubilized in 1% SDS/50 mM Tris (pH 8). Proteins were diluted with four volumes of 1.25% NP-40/125 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris (pH 8) and allowed to bind to streptavidin beads for 1 h at room temperature or overnight at 4°C. Beads were washed sequentially with 1% SDS/PBS, 8 M urea/100 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris (pH 8), 1 M NaCl/1% NP-40/0.1% SDS/50 mM Tris (pH 8), and again with 1% SDS/PBS. Bound proteins were eluted with 6 M urea/2 M thiourea/2% SDS/15 mM biotin/PBS (pH 12) for 10 min at 95°C (43).
Desalted peptides were analyzed by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry on an LTQ-Orbitrap Velos mass spectrometer (Thermo Scientific, Santa Clara, CA). Peak lists were generated with the msConvert algorithm23 (v. 3.0.45), and spectra were assigned to peptides using the SEQUEST (44) algorithm (v. 28.12) against the human proteome downloaded from the International Protein Index repository (ver 3.66). This sequence database also consisted of common protein contaminants, as well as reversed decoy sequences to facilitate false discovery rate estimation (45). Search parameters included precursor ion mass tolerance of 50 ppm and fragment ion mass tolerance of 1 Da. For BEMAD experiments, additional search parameters included static modification of cysteines (+47.98474387 Da, trioxidation) and methionines (+31.98982924, dioxidation) and variable modification of serines and threonines (+136.001659 for light DTT and +142.03931968 for heavy DTT) and tryptophans (+15.99491462, oxidation). For metabolic labeling experiments, additional search parameters included static modification of cysteines (+57.0214637236, carbamidomethylation), as well as variable modifications of methionines (+15.9949146221, oxidation), serines, threonines, and tyrosines (+79.9663304104, phosphorylation), and lysines (+42.0105646863, acetylation). Peptide identifications from each sample were filtered to a 1% peptide false-discovery rate (45).
For the analysis of OGT localization, CH27 B cells were pulsed with 10 μM MCC agonist peptide or 99E antagonist peptide for 4–6 h at 37°C. B cells were washed and incubated with 5CC7 T cell blasts on glass coverslips. In some cases, the coverslips were precoated with anti-CD16/32 to facilitate attachment of the CH27 cells. After 10–60 min, cells were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) in PBS, permeabilized in 0.3% Triton X-100/PBS, and stained with anti-OGT, followed by Alexa Fluor 488–labeled anti-rabbit IgG.

For experiments with primary human T cells, #1.5 glass coverslips were placed in 24-well plates and coated with 2.5 μg/ml anti-CD3 (OKT3) and 5 μg/ml anti-CD28 (CD28.2) in PBS at 4°C overnight, followed by washing with PBS. For the analysis of nascent RNA synthesis, T cells were cultured on coated coverslips in the presence of 200 μM 5-ethynyl uridine (5-EU; Life Technologies). Cells were fixed with 4% PFA in PBS for 15 min at room temperature. Cells were then permeabilized with 0.3% Triton X-100/PBS, and metabolically incorporated 5-EU was labeled with 10 μM azide-labeled Alexa Fluor 488 (Life Technologies) using click chemistry reagents (C10269; Life Technologies), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. After fluorescent labeling, coverslips were mounted on glass slides in VECTASHIELD mounting medium with DAPI and examined with a Zeiss LSM 710 META confocal microscope.

To assay NFAT translocation, Jurkat cells stably expressing GFP-tagged NFAT (clone Cnc1g; generously provided by the R. Lewis Laboratory) were treated with 50 μM 5S-GlcNAc for 48 h. Cells were plated on #1.5 glass coverslips coated with 2.5 μg/ml OKT3 and 5 μg/ml CD28.2 in PBS at 37°C for 2 h. After stimulation, cells were fixed with 4% PFA in PBS for 15 min at room temperature, washed in PBS, and mounted on slides, as above, for confocal imaging.
After stimulation, T cells were washed in FACS buffer (2% FBS, 1 mM EDTA in PBS) and stained with Aqua LIVE/DEAD (Life Technologies). Cells were then fixed and permeabilized with Cytofix/Cytoperm (BD Biosciences) for intracellular staining to detect IL-2 and O-GlcNAc. FITC-labeled anti-mouse IgM secondary Ab was used to detect anti–O-GlcNAc Ab CTD110.6.

For the analysis of proliferation, T cells were labeled with CFSE (Life Technologies). Briefly, cells were resuspended in prewarmed complete RPMI 1640 medium diluted 1/100 in PBS at 5 × 106 cells/ml. CFSE was added to 1 μM, and cells were labeled for 8 min at 37°C. The labeling reaction was quenched by adding one volume of cold FBS to three volumes of cells. Cells were washed twice in cold complete medium and allowed to proliferate for 3–4 d at 37°C. Cells were harvested, washed in FACS buffer, and stained with Aqua LIVE/DEAD prior to analysis by flow cytometry. All cells were analyzed on an LSR II flow cytometer (BD Biosciences). Data were analyzed by FlowJo software (TreeStar).

For the analysis of 5-EU incorporation by flow cytometry, cells were treated the same as for microscopy except they were cultured in 96-well plates. Unless otherwise noted, plots are gated on total cells based on forward scatter versus side scatter.
19F and 1H R1 measurement
19F-MRS spectra were acquired with a 16.4 T MR system (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA) using a custom-built single-loop surface coil tuned to 656.8 MHz. For HMDSO, the coil was tuned to 1H (698.2 MHz). A standard inversion-recovery pulse sequence was used to measure R1. Adiabatic half-passage (90°) and inversion (180°) pulses were used to ensure uniform flip angles. For each scan, the magnetization recovery was interrogated after various delay times. Single spectra were acquired for in vitro experiments, but in vivo data were averaged (N = 2) to increase the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and reduce errors. The unapodized spectra were processed by automatically correcting the phase, baseline, and drift using VnmrJ (Agilent Technologies). The peaks were then integrated and the peak areas were fit to Equation (1) using a three-parameter nonlinear regression with GraphPad Prism (v5; GraphPad Software, Inc., La Jolla, CA). Equation (1) is the solution to the Bloch equation for the longitudinal magnetization (Mz) during an inversion-recovery pulse sequence when repetition time (TR) >>T1 and echo time <<T2, where α and β are fitting constants and t is the recovery time. The additional fitting constant was utilized because it can compensate for imperfect inversion and has been previously and successfully applied to 19F relaxometry.27,34,35,42,44

equation eq1
PFC and HMDSO MRS calibration
Various probes were tested for oxygen and temperature sensitivity using neat compounds. To calibrate each PFC (PFCE [Exfluor Research Corporation, Round Rock, TX], HFB [Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO], PFD [Fluoromed, L.P, Round Rock, TX], PFOB [Sigma-Aldrich], PFTBA [Sigma-Aldrich]), and HMDSO (Sigma-Aldrich), 1.8 mL of the selected molecule was placed into a 2 mL vial. The vial was placed in the center of the surface coil; the coil was tuned, and inserted into the magnet. PFCE, HFB, and HMDSO benefit from processing only a single resonance. For PFD, PFOB, and PFTBA (which have multiple resonances), the I-,45 θ-,29 and δ-29 resonances, respectively, were interrogated. The sample was then bubbled with a gas of known oxygen concentration for 30 min while the temperature was held constant. The magnet was shimmed and R1 was then measured as described above and delay times were optimized to each sample's R1.46,47 Measurements were made for five different pO2s (0, 38, 76, 114, and 160 mmHg) at three different temperatures (21, 37, and 45°C). An FO temperature probe (SA Instruments, Inc., Stony Brook, NY) verified the temperature of the sample. Each condition was measured in replicate (N = 2–6) with a TR of at least 5/R1. The R1 was assumed to be a function of the pO2, temperature (T), and four fitting constants [A, B, C, and D; Eq. (2)] as previously described.27 This model accounts not only for the dipolar interactions of the dissolved oxygen gas, but for the effects of temperature on the correlation time and dissolved oxygen concentration as well. Fitting constant A is a result of dipole–dipole interactions between the magnetic moments of the nuclei of the probes (the most significant energy-transfer mechanism leading to relaxation in the anoxic probes). Fitting constant B is attributable to additional dipole–dipole interactions between the nuclei of the probes and the unpaired electrons of the dissolved oxygen gas, which quickens relaxation. Temperature alters the correlation time (the time scale on which these magnetic field fluctuations occur) and necessitates fitting constant C. Fitting constant D is due to cross-interactions of oxygen and temperature, mainly the temperature dependence of the Henry constant. Many of the physical processes associated with the fitting constants are complex, but yield a surprisingly linear relationship for the temperatures and pO2s typically encountered during in vivo experiments.27 R1 measurements were fit to the multiparametric calibration equation using a Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm (OriginLab, Northampton, MA).

equation eq2
TEG construction
TEGs were prepared by loading a macroencapsulation device with an oxygen-sensitive matrix. PFCE was chosen for the probe because of its high oxygen sensitivity, high nuclear molarity (equivalent nuclei per volume), and excellent reported biocompatibility.32,40 Fluorine-loaded fibrin gels were prepared with 75 μL of porcine plasma (Sigma-Aldrich) emulsified with 75 μL of PFCE. The mixture was emulsified by manual agitation, injected into a 40 μL immunoisolation device (TheraCyte, Inc., Laguna Hills, CA) using a 250-μL precision syringe (Hamilton Company, Reno, NV), and then cross-linked with 5% v/v bovine thrombin solution. The thrombin solution was made by diluting concentrated topical thrombin solution (GenTrac, Inc., Middleton, WI) in phosphate-buffered saline with calcium and magnesium (PBS++) (Gibco, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA). The cell access port was trimmed short, and sealed with adhesive (Dermabond; Ethicon, Inc., Somerville, NJ).

19F-MRS TEG calibration
TEGs were prepared as described above and placed into a 50 mL conical tube filled with PBS++. An FO oxygen probe (Ocean Optics, Dunedin, FL) was inserted into the TEG for simultaneous comparison with 19F-MRS-measured pO2. The vial was placed in the center of the coil; the coil was tuned, and inserted into the magnet. The sample was then bubbled with a gas of known oxygen concentration for 30 min while the temperature was held constant. The magnet was shimmed and R1 was then measured as described above with 10 different delay times (0.05, 0.1, 0.15, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 2, 4, and 5 s). Measurements were made for five different pO2s (0, 38, 76, 114, and 160 mmHg) at three different temperatures (21, 37, and 45°C) as verified with the FO temperature probe as described above. Each condition was measured in replicate (N = 6) with a TR of 6 s. The R1 was again fit to the multiparametric calibration equation using a Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm.

TEG implantation
All animal research was approved and overseen by the University of Minnesota Institute for Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). A total of nine male Lewis rats were implanted with a PFCE-loaded TEG. On the day of implantation, rats were anesthetized with inhalation isoflurane using a respirator and vaporizer. The surgical sites were shaved with an electric clipper, and the skin was surgically prepped with chlorhexidine or equivalent antiseptic. A 1.5 cm incision was made in the skin on the dorsal side, just inferior to the scapulae, and perpendicular to, but symmetric across the medial line. Using gentle blunt dissection, a small pocket was created adjacent to the vertebral column just large enough to accommodate the device snugly. The pocket was rinsed and lubricated with saline, and the device was tucked into the pocket. The device was completely fabricated using plastic (PTFE) materials, designed for flexibility and biocompatibility. The incision was closed with absorbable suture in a normal fashion using at least two layers and taking care to make sure the device components were not directly below the incision. Surgical glue was applied over the closed incision as a barrier. NSAIDs (meloxicam, 1 mg/kg) were administered by subcutaneous injection to minimize pain and inflammation for three or more days following surgery. Animals were monitored daily during recovery for up to 14 days until the incision was fully healed.

In vivo oximetry in rats
The subcutaneous TEG pO2 of six rats was evaluated 1, 4, 8, 15, 22, and 29 days postimplantation. On the day of measurement, rats were anesthetized with inhalation isoflurane, immobilized onto a holder with the device centered over the custom-built surface coil, stabilized at a core body temperature of 37°C ± 0.2°C as measured with a rectal thermocouple, and inserted into the 16.4 T horizontal-bore magnet. Animals were continuously monitored during scanning with anesthesia depth and forced-air heater temperature adjusted as needed. After the coil was tuned and the magnet shimmed, R1 measurements (N = 6) were made with the inversion-recovery sequence with adiabatic pulses used for TEG calibration. The R1 of each measurement was then converted to a pO2 using the multiparametric calibration previously determined in vitro. Following completion of the study, animals were promptly euthanized using CO2 for device explant and gross evaluation.

Validation of 19F-MRS in vivo pO2 measurements
The 19F-MRS pO2 measurements of a subset of TEGs (N = 3) were validated with an FO probe in vivo. These devices were equipped with an additional access port (In-Line access port; Access Technologies, Skokie, IL). On the day of scanning, rats were anesthetized and a transcutaneous catheter was inserted into the access port. A previously calibrated ultra-thin 250 μm FO probe (Ocean Optics) was then threaded through the catheter into the TEG and the rat was inserted into the MR system (Fig. 1). FO pO2 was measured simultaneously with the MRS pO2 measurement technique for direct comparison.

An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc.
Object name is fig-1.jpg
Open in a separate window
FIG. 1.
Illustration of a macroencapsulation device with access port (red) in a dorsal subcutaneous pocket of a Lewis rat. For FO measurements, the 250-μm thin-fiber oxygen probe (green) was inserted transcutaneously through the skin and access port into the cell compartment of the device. The 19F-MRS coil (blue) was placed on the dorsal side of the anesthetized rat to detect the 19F signal of the PFCE within the device. FO, fiber optic; MRS, magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

TEGs with DSO
A small group of rats (N = 3) were acclimated with a harness and tether apparatus (Instech Laboratories, Plymouth Meeting, PA) for 2 weeks before implantation with a TEG modified for DSO. The harness and tether apparatus contains a swivel, and counter-balance system to allow for animal movement around the cage, and normal feeding, drinking, and grooming behaviors. The TEGs were modified to include an internal compartment and cannulae for transcutaneous oxygen delivery in vivo. Briefly, two additional internal membranes were added to the macroencapsulation device previously described to create a three-chamber device with an internal oxygen compartment, and two distinct cell compartments superior and inferior to this central oxygen compartment. Further, three additional access ports were added to the device to allow access to each compartment. Two access ports provided access to the central compartment to allow for oxygen gas infusion and effusion while two additional ports provided access to the superior and inferior cell compartments. TEGs for DSO were prepared by loading the cell compartments of the modified devices with the acellular PFCE-plasma gel emulsion described above.

The TEGs were then implanted in the subcutaneous space as described above leaving the oxygen compartment access cannulae protruding through the incision for attachment to the harness and tether apparatus. The tether system was connected through the cage lid to an electrochemical oxygen generator (Giner, Inc., Newton, MA) through a specialized manifold to regulate and monitor the delivery of oxygen gas to the implanted devices. Pure humidified oxygen gas (760 mmHg) was continuously delivered through the harness and tether apparatus to the modified TEG for the duration of the study. Extended sections of tubing were used to continue DSO during pO2 assessment, which was measured with 19F-MRS 1 day postimplantation. DSO was then discontinued for 1 day and the pO2 of the TEG was reassessed with 19F-MRS. R1 measurement and conversion to pO2 was as described above except for the addition of a 760 mmHg pO2 to the calibration procedure.

Comparative data collection and analysis
A thorough review of literature was conducted to allow a comparison of our findings and determine whether the static magnetic field strength (B0) affects R1 oxygen sensitivity, R1 temperature sensitivity, or anoxic R1 of PFCE. Data were collected from relevant publications identified using electronic databases (PubMed and Google Scholar) and references cited in relevant publications. Data collected included B0, change in PFCE R1 with oxygen concentration, change in PFCE R1 with temperature, and PFCE anoxic R1. Results were excluded if any information other than change in PFCE R1 with temperature was not available. It was assumed that creating an emulsion with PFCE does not change its relaxation. After compilation, data were fitted assuming a linear relationship between B0 and the parameters of interest. These fittings were then used to determine the effect of B0 on the contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) between anoxia and three partial pressures of oxygen (15, 40, and 100 mmHg). In calculating the CNR, it was assumed that proton densities were equal, T2 effects could be ignored, SNR increases linearly with B0, and TR = 5 ms. The excitation angle was adjusted for optimal T1 contrast as previously described.48
cDNA clones for cep135, ana1, sas-6 and asl were described in11, sas-4 in15, and gbp was a gift from Iain Hagan (University of Manchester, UK) 35. Entry clones with CDS encoding full-length or fragments of these genes were generated using Gateway System (Life Technologies). Expression constructs were made by recombination between entry clones and the following destination vectors: pDEST15 (for N-terminal GST fusion in E. coli, Life Technologies), pDEST17 (for N-terminal 6×His fusion in E. coli, Life Technologies), pET-T7-DEST42 (for IVTT expression under the regulation of T7 promoter; Life Technologies; due to the stop codon between the CDS and 6×His, the tag is not translated), pKM596 (for N-terminal MBP fusion in E. coli, Addgene), pAFW or pAWF (for actin5C promoter-driven N- or C-terminal 3×Flag fusion in D.Mel-2 cells, Drosophila Genomics Resource Center (DGRC, NIH grant 2P40OD010949-10A1)), pAGW or pAWG (for actin5C promoter-driven N- or C-terminal GFP fusion in cells, DGRC), pMT-N-mRFP or -C-mRFP (for inducible metallothionein promoter-driven N- or C-terminal mRFP fusion in cells), pAct5c-C-mRFP (for actin5C promoter-driven C-terminal mRFP fusion in cells), pUGW or pUWG (for ubiquitin promoter-driven N- or C-terminal GFP fusion in flies, DGRC). For cloning GBP and Ana1-C into a Gateway destination vector, MultiSite Gateway Pro 2.0 (Life Technologies) was used.
Maltose binding protein (MBP) or MBP-tagged Ana1 were expressed in E. coli strain Rosetta™2(DE3)pLysS Singles™ (Novagen) induced with 0.3 mM isopropyl 1-thio-β-D-galactopyranoside for 6 h at 24°C. Cells were lysed by sonication in ice cold LBM buffer (20 mM Tris pH 7.4, 200 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 2 mM MgCl2, 5% glycerol) supplemented with EDTA-free complete protease inhibitor cocktail (PIC, Roche) and 0.2 mg/ml lysozyme (Sigma). Recombinant proteins were immobilized on Amylose resin (NEB) following the manufacturer’s instruction. Beads were resuspended in LBM + 50 % glycerol and stored at −20°C before used in in vitro binding assay.

Glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged Sas-4-301-600aa, Sas-4-601-901aa or Ana1-622-981aa (Ana1-M-antigen) were expressed in E. coli strain BL21Star(DE3)pLysS (Life Technologies) as detailed above. Cells were lysed by sonication in PBS supplemented with 1 mM PMSF, PIC and 2% N-Lauroylsarcosine (Sigma, 61747). 4% Triton X-100 was then added and the lysate was incubated for 20 min at 4°C followed by centrifugation at 34,000g, at 4°C for 20 min. Recombinant proteins were purified on Glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare). GST-tagged Sas-4-301-600aa and Sas-4-601-901aa were eluted from the resin using 100 mM Glycine-HCl (pH 2.1), while Ana1-622-981aa eluted with reduced glutathione solution (50 mM Tris pH 8.0, 20 mM glutathione). His-tagged Ana1-1400-1729aa (Ana1-C-antigen) or Cep135-1-225 (Cep135-N-antigen) were expressed in E. coli strain BL21Star(DE3)pLysS or Rosetta™2(DE3)pLysS Singles™ (Novagen). Ana1 antigen was purified on Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen) under native conditions and eluted following the manufacturer’s guide. Cep135 antigen was purified on Ni-NTA resin under denaturing condition and refolded following standard protocol. Purified proteins were concentrated and dialyzed against PBS or PBS + 1 M Urea overnight before used for immunization.
The following primary antibodies were used for immunofluorescence in Drosophila cells or tissues: rat anti-Sas-611 (1:100, against GST-Sas-6-236-472aa); rabbit anti-Ana211 (1:500, against GST-Ana2-1-280aa); rat anti-Sas-4 (1:500, against the mixture of GST-Sas-4-301-600aa and GST-Sas4-601-901aa, serum produced by Animal Facility at IBMC, Porto, Portugal and purified as below); mouse anti-Sas-445 (1:500, monoclonal, courtesy of Tomer Avidor-Reiss (University of Toledo, USA)); rabbit anti-Asl25 (1:500, against full length); rabbit anti-Spd-29 (1:500); chicken anti-Dplp15 (1:500); mouse anti-γ-tubulin (GTU-88, Sigma T6557); mouse anti-Flag (1:1000, M2, Sigma, F3165); rat anti-RFP (1:500, 5F8, ChromoTek). Antibody against C terminus of Cep135 was kindly provided by Timothy Megraw (Florida State University, USA) 30 (rabbit anti-Cep135-C, 1:500); Serum against N terminus of Cep135 was produced by Moravian Biotechnology, Czech Republic, and purified as below (Rabbit anti-Cep135-N, 1:500, against His-Cep135-1-225aa). Serum against middle region of Ana1 was produced by Animal Facility at IBMC (rat anti-Ana1-M, 1:500, against GST-Ana1-622-981aa); Serum against C terminus of Ana1 was produced by Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service and purified as below (rabbit anti-Ana1-C, 1:5000, against His-Ana1-1400-1729aa). Antibody against N terminus of Asl was purified as below (rabbit anti-Asl-N, 1:500, against 1-300aa), and antibody that recognizes 16-mer peptide within the C-terminal of Asl was kindly provided by Cayetano Gonzalez (IRB Barcelona, Spain) 46.

Rat anti-Sas-4 and anti-Ana1-M immunoglobulins (IgGs) were purified using a mixture of Protein-A and Protein-G Sepharose (GE Healthcare), and rabbit anti-Ana1-C IgG was purified on Protein-A Sepharose according to manufacturer’s guidelines. Rabbit anti-Asl-N or anti-Cep135-N IgGs were affinity purified on Asl-1-300aa or Cep135-1-225aa antigens immobilized on nitrocellulose membranes following standard procedures. Specificity of these antibodies was verified by Western blotting (Supplementary Fig. 2a, b).

The following primary antibodies were used for immunofluorescence in human cells: rabbit anti-Cep13521 (1:500, against Cep135-650-1140aa-His, courtesy of Tang Tang (Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Taiwan)); rabbit anti-Cep152-N40 (1:500, against Cep152-26-39aa, courtesy of Ingrid Hoffmann (German Cancer Research Center, Germany)); rabbit anti-Cep152-C40 (1:500, against Cep152-1140-1308aa, courtesy of Ingrid Hoffmann); rabbit anti-Cep295 (KIAA1731, 1:500, Abcam 122490); mouse anti-acetylated tubulin (1:1000, Sigma T7451).

The following primary antibodies were used for Western blotting: mouse anti-Flag (1:10000, M2, Sigma); rabbit anti-GFP (1:10000, ab280, Abcam); mouse anti-α-tubulin (1:6000, DM1A, Sigma); rabbit anti-Asl (1:8000); rabbit anti-Asl-N IgG (1:500); rat anti-Ana1-M IgG (1:5000); rabbit anti-Cep135-N IgG (1:3000); rabbit anti-Cep135-C IgG (1:5000); rat anti-Sas-4 (1:5000); rabbit anti-human Cep135 IgG (1:500); rabbit anti-Cep295 (1:2000).

Secondary antibodies conjugated with Alexa Fluor 488, 594 or 405 were diluted 1:500 for immunofluorescence (Life Technologies); secondary antibodies conjugated with HRP were diluted 1:10000 for Western blotting (Jackson ImmunoResearch).
D.Mel-2 cells (Life Technologies) were grown at 25°C in Express Five SFM (Life Technologies) supplemented with L-glutamine (2 mM; Gibco) and penicillin-streptomycin (50 units/ml-50 μg/ml; Gibco). Transfection of plasmids was performed using X-tremeGENE HP DNA Transfection Reagent (Roche). For transient expression, cells were collected and subjected to immunostaining, GFP-trap pull-down or glycerol gradient sedimentation after 36 h. To establish stable cell lines, 20 μg/ml blasticidin (Life Technologies) was added to the medium 48 h after transfection. Established cell lines were authenticated by both western blotting and immunostaining. D.Mel-2 cells were transfected with dsRNA using TransFast™ Transfection Reagent (Promega). For repeated rounds of depletion, cells were harvested every 4 days and re-submitted to the same transfection protocol. RNAi efficiency was tested by Western blotting (Supplementary Fig. 2a, all experiments were independently performed three times).

Double-stranded RNAs (dsRNA) directed against the coding sequence were synthesized from templates of Drosophila cDNA clones using T7 RiboMAX Express RNAi System (Promega), primers listed in Supplementary Table 1. To selectively knock down endogenous proteins, 5’-UTR-3’-UTR hybrid was generated by Overlap Extension PCR and used as templates for dsRNA. Full sequences are listed in Supplementary Table 1.

U2OS cells (ATCC) were cultured at 37°C with 5% CO2 in Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM, Gibco) supplemented with 10% heat inactivated Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS, Gibco) and penicillin-streptomycin (50 units/ml-50 μg/ml; Gibco). RNAi was performed using RNAiMAX (Life Technologies). siRNAs targeting specific genes (siCep295: 5’-GUGAUACACUAACAAUUGA-3’4; siCep135-1: 5’-CAAGCAGAUUGAGCUAAGA-3’47; siCep135-2: 5’-GACUGAGUGAUGAACUCCUUGUAAA-3’21; siCep135-3: 5’-GCGAAGAUCUUGCUCUACAAGUUAU-3’21) and a MISSION® siRNA Universal Negative Control #1 were obtained from Sigma. Because Cep135 is difficult to be stripped from centrioles21, two consecutive RNAi were performed for a total of 6 days using combination of three different siRNAs (100 nM each). Cep295 depletion was performed for 3 days (100 nM of single siRNA).

To enrich G2 population, U2OS cells were synchronized by double thymidine (2.5 mM, Sigma) block and released into fresh medium for 9 h before subjecting to immunostaining or Western-blotting. All experiments in Figure 8 (including RNAi and the following analysis) were independently performed three times.
These procedures were described in9. Briefly, D.Mel-2 cells were plated on Concanavalin A (Sigma)-coated coverslips (#1.5, 0.17mm thickness, Zeiss) 3 h prior to fixation. Cells were washed with PBS, fixed with pre-cooled methanol for 6 min at −20°C, and washed three times in 0.1% Triton X-100-PBS. Cells were then blocked with 3% BSA-0.1% Triton X-100-PBS for 30 min and incubated with the primary antibody overnight at 4°C. Cells were washed again for three times in 0.1% Triton X-100-PBS and incubated with the secondary antibody for 45 min at room temperature. Coverslips were mounted onto slides using VECTASHIELD mounting medium with or without DAPI (VECTOR laboratories). U2OS cells grown on coverslips were fixed and immunostained similarly to above, but using 0.1% Tween-PBS instead of Triton X-100 for the whole procedure. To visualize the centrioles by acetylated tubulin staining, cells were first kept on ice for 2 h to depolymerize the cytoplasmic microtubules, pre-extracted with 0.5% Triton X-100-PBS for 2 min and fixed with pre-cooled methanol for 10 min at −20°C.

Super-resolution images were acquired using a Deltavision OMX 3D-SIM System V3 BLAZE from Applied Precision (GE Healthcare) equipped with 3 sCMOS cameras, 405, 488, 592.5nm diode laser illumination, an Olympus Plan Apo N 60× 1.42 NA oil objective, and standard excitation and emission filter sets. Imaging of each channel was done sequentially using three angles and five phase shifts of the illumination pattern. The refractive index of the immersion oil (Cargille) was adjusted to minimize spherical aberrations. Sections were acquired at 0.125 μm z steps.

Raw OMX data was reconstructed and channel registered in SoftWoRx software version 5.5 (Applied Precision, GE Healthcare). Reconstructions were carried out using channel specific Optical Transfer Functions (OTFs), a Wiener filter of 0.002, and channel specific K0 angles. OTFs were generated within the SoftWoRx software by imaging 100 nm beads (Life Technologies) using appropriate immersion oils to match the data. Channel registration was carried out using the Image Registration parameters generated within the SoftWoRx software and checked for accuracy by imaging Tetraspeck beads (Life Technologies) and control samples where one primary antibody was labeled with two secondary antibodies. Channel registration was accurate to within one pixel.

To measure the radial distance of different proteins or regions given in Fig. 2c and ​and7i,7i, the line scan and plot profiles of Fiji were applied to centrioles that are perpendicular to the coverslips. The distance between two farthest peak intensities of a ring was defined as diameter, and radius=diameter/2. Total centriole numbers were stated in the figure legends and SD (Standard Deviation), SEM (Standard Error of the Mean) and p value determined using Prism 5. To analyze distribution of signals detected in different channels in Fig. 2e, RGB merged files were subjected to line scan and RGB profiler. To measure the ratio of Cep135 on daughter and mother centrioles in Fig. 5g, the mean intensity was subtracted by the background before multiplied by area using Fiji and Excel.

All experiments were independently performed three times.
D.Mel-2 cells were fixed and immunostained as above. Microscopic analysis was performed on a Carl Zeiss Axiovert 200M microscope with 40×/1 or 100×/1.4 Plan Apochromat objectives. Images were acquired with a Photometrics Cool SNAP HQ2 camera and the image analysis software Metamorph (v7.7). All experiments were independently performed three times.

For co-localization analysis in Fig. 3 and ​and4,4, D.Mel-2 cells were co-transfected with indicated constructs, plated on Concanavalin A (Sigma)-coated coverslips 3 h prior to fixation. Coverslips were then mounted onto slides using VECTASHIELD mounting medium with DAPI (VECTOR laboratories). Protein localization was observed by native GFP or mRFP signal. In the case of Flag-tagged constructs, cells were immunostained with anti-Flag antibody as described above.
The procedure was described in48. Briefly, cultured cells on coverslips were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS for 15 min and immersed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) for 2 h at 4°C. They were then washed three times for 30 min in phosphate buffer, postfixed with 1% OsO4 for 1 h at 4°C, washed once in phosphate buffer, and then in distilled water. Samples were stained for 1 h in uranyl acetate. They were washed again and then dehydrated in a graded series of ethanol and flat-embedded in a mixture of Epon and Araldite. After polymerization for 2 days at 60°C, the coverslips were removed from the resin after a short immersion in liquid nitrogen. Ultrathin serial sections were obtained with a LKB ultratome, stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and observed and photographed with a Philips CM10 electron microscope at 80 kV.

To measure centriole diameters in Fig. 7g and Supplementary Fig. 4c, cross section images were used and a line was drawn between two opposite B-tubules of the microtubule wall.
Fly stocks were maintained at 25 °C on standard Drosophila food. OregonR (OrR) flies were used as wild type control. The ana1 mutant line (w; CyO GFP/Sco; ana1mecB/TM6B GFP) was kindly provided by Tomer Avidor-Reiss (University of Toledo, USA) and the line carrying the deficiency uncovering ana1 (w; Df(3R)Exel7357/TM6B) was obtained from the Bloomington Drosophila Stock Center. The cep135 mutant line (bld10c04199/TM6B) and the line carrying the deficiency uncovering cep135 (w; If /CyO act GFP; Df(3L)Brd15/TM6B) were kindly provided by Clemens Cabernard (University of Basel, Switzerland). Trans-heterozygous males for ana1 or cep135, obtained by crossing the aforementioned stocks, were used to prepare testes extracts for Western blotting or immunofluorescence analysis. polyubiquitin GFP-Ana1/FM7 and polyubiquitin Ana1-GFP/FM7 transgenic flies were generated by University of Cambridge Department of Genetics Fly Facility, and polyubiquitin GFP-Cep135/CyO was kindly provided by Mónica Bettencourt-Dias (Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência, Portugal).
For Western blot analysis, testes from pharate adults were dissected in PBS (20 pairs) and pestle homogenized in 40 μl 2× Laemmli sample buffer (Sigma), incubated on ice for 5 min and boiled. Experiments were independently performed twice.

For immunofluorescence analysis, testes from pharate adults were dissected in PBS, transferred to 5% glycerol-PBS and squashed between microscope slide and coverslip. After snap freezing in liquid nitrogen, testes on slides were fixed in methanol, rehydrated in 0.5% Triton-X100-PBS for 30 seconds, rinsed in PBS for 10 min and incubated with primary antibodies (diluted in PBS) at 4°C overnight. Slides were then rinsed for 30 seconds in PBS, incubated again in PBS for 10 min and with secondary antibodies (1:200 in PBS) for 4 h at room temperature. Finally, slides were rinsed in PBS for 30 seconds followed by a 10 min wash and mounting in Vectashield containing DAPI (Vector Laboratories).

Images were either acquired using Structured Illumination Microscopy as described above, or a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope equipped with a 63× oil objective, NA 1.4, using the 488 nm laser line of an Argon Ion laser (green), the 561 nm laser line of an DPSS laser (red), the 633 nm laser line of a HeNe laser (far red) and a diode laser with a 405 nm laser line (blue). Stack of images were acquired at a 0.5 μm z step. Figures shown are the maximum-intensity projections of optical sections prepared with Fiji. All experiments were independently performed twice.
35S-methionine-labelled Cep135, Asl and Sas-6 were expressed in vitro using the TNT T7 Quick Coupled Transcription-Translation System (IVTT; Promega) following the procedure described earlier11. Briefly, pET-DEST42-T7-Cep135 (90 ng), -Asl (90 ng) or -Sas-6 (90 ng) plasmids were added into 11 μl IVTT reaction mixture (9.9 μl TNT Quick Master Mix (Promega, L1170), 0.9 μl RNasin Plus (Promega), 0.9 μl 50× PIC (Roche) and 0.48 MBq Methionine-L [35S] (Perkin Elmer)), and incubated at 30°C for 1.5 h followed by centrifugation at room temperature at 21,000g for 5 min. Supernatant (Input) was used in in vitro binding assay.
These procedures were described in49. Specifically, MBP or MBP-Ana1 immobilized on beads were mixed with 500 μl Binding Buffer (BB: 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, 1 mM DTT, 0.1% Triton X-100, PIC (Roche), 1 mg/ml BSA) and 5 μl IVTT reaction mixture (containing 35S-Met-Sas-6, Cep135 or Asl) and incubated for 3 h at 4°C on an end-over-end rotator. Beads were then settled by mild centrifugation and washed 3 times with Washing Buffer-1 (WB-1: BB without BSA) by gently pipetting followed by incubation for 5 min on the rotator. Beads were then washed twice in WB-2 (WB-1 supplemented with 100 mM NaCl and 0.1% Triton X-100), resuspended in 20 μl 2× Laemmli sample buffer, boiled and subjected to SDS-PAGE. Gels were stained with Bio-Safe Coomassie (Bio-Rad), scanned, dried and used for autoradiography. All experiments were independently performed twice.
D.Mel-2 cells were washed in PBS, homogenized in ice cold Extraction Buffer-1 (EB-1: 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 100 mM K-acetate, 100 mM NaCl, 50 mM KCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 2 mM EGTA, 0.1% NP-40, 5% glycerol, PIC (Roche), 25 μM MG132) supplemented with 10 U/ml Bensonaze (Novagen) by passing through a pre-chilled G25 needle (10 times) followed by incubation on ice for 20 min. Lysates were then centrifuged (3,000g, 4°C, 20 min) and supernatant (Input) were subjected to GFP-Trap purification (magnetic agarose beads, ChromoTek) as described before50. After final wash, beads were mixed with 2× Laemmli sample buffer, boiled and subjected to Western blotting. All experiments were independently performed three times.
D.Mel-2 cells were washed in PBS and lysed in EB-2 buffer (EB-1 supplemented with 1 mM DTT, 25 μM MG132 and 20U/ml Benzonase) as above. After centrifugation (2000 g, 4 °C, 10 min) pellets were resuspended in EB-2 and loaded onto a 11 ml 10-30% linear glycerol gradient made in EB-2 buffer (without MG132 and NP-40). Sedimentation was carried out by centrifugation in a SW40 Ti rotor at 35,000 rpm (RCFmax=217,874) for 20 h at 4°C. Fractions (350 μl each) were collected from the top of the gradient and precipitated with 25% Trichloroacetic-acid followed by ice cold acetone wash. Precipitates were resuspended in 2× Laemmli sample buffer, boiled and subjected to Western-blotting analysis. Experiments were independently performed twice.
Vascular staining of T cells was performed by intravenous administration of 3 μg of fluorochrome-labeled anti-CD45.2, three minutes prior to euthanasia. Single-cell suspensions from lymph nodes and spleen were prepared by mechanical disruption on stainless steel meshes using a syringe plunger. To extract cells from lungs, lung tissue was minced and processed using the gentleMACS Dissociator (Miltenyi Biotech) in 5 mL media containing 2mg/ml collagenase B, as per manufacturer’s instructions. Samples were incubated for 30 minutes at 37C, rehomogenized and resuspended in media containing 1% FBS. Subsequently, cells were spun down, resuspended in 10% RPMI and counted in a hemocytometer. Single cell suspensions of cells (107/ml) prepared from various tissues were stained for viability with Dye eFluor 780 (eBiosciences, San Diego, CA), and incubated with fluorochrome-labeled antibodies of MHC I tetramers (1:150 dilution) at 4C for 1 hour. For staining with the I-Ab/NP311 tetramer (1:150 dilution), cells were incubated with tetramer at 37C for 60 minutes, followed by staining with antibodies for cell surface molecules at 4C for 30 minutes. Following staining, cells were washed three times with FACS buffer (2% BSA in PBS). Stained cells were fixed with 2% paraformaldehyde for 20 minutes, then transferred to FACS buffer (2% BSA in PBS). When analyzed for GFP expression, as in KLF2-eGFP mice, cells were stained with MHC I/II tetramers and antibodies; live unfixed cells were acquired on a flow cytometer. In most cases, we acquired a total of 1-2x106 events/sample on the flow cytometer. Data from live single cells were analyzed with FlowJo software (TreeStar, Ashland, OR).

Intracellular Staining for Cytokines and Transcription Factors
For intracellular cytokine staining, 1x106 cells were stimulated for 5 hours at 37C in the presence of human recombinant IL-2 (10 U/well), and brefeldin A (1 μl/ml, GolgiPlug, BD Biosciences), with one of the following peptides: OVA257, NP366 or NP311 (thinkpeptides®, ProImmune Ltd. Oxford, UK) at 0.1ug/ml. After stimulation, cells were stained for 30 minutes with antibodies to cell surface markers, washed 3 times, fix/permeabilzed and stained for intracellular molecules with Cytofix/Cytoperm kit (BD Biosciences, Franklin Lakes, NJ). To stain for transcription factors, cells were first stained with antibodies for cell surface molecules for 30 minutes at 4C, fixed, permeabilized and subsequently stained for transcription factors using the transcription factors staining kit (eBioscience). Samples containing up to 2x106 cells were acquired on a LSRFortessa (BD Biosciences) flow cytometer; Upto 2x106 events/sample were acquired in a flow cytometer. Data from live single cells were analyzed with FlowJo software (TreeStar, Ashland, OR).

Cytokine production in lungs
At 24 and 48 hours after vaccination with OVA and various adjuvants, lungs were harvested for cytokine analysis Five hundred microliter of the mammalian tissue protein extraction reagent (T-PER) (Thermo Scientific) containing protease inhibitor cocktails (Roche, Indianapolis, IN), was added to the lung tissue and homogenized in a tissue homogenizer. Subsequently, tissue lystate was centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 5 minutes at 4C. Supernatants were collected and protein concentrations in extracts were quantified using BCA method and 1mg of total lysate was added for each well in a 96-well plate. Cytokines were quantified using Bio-Plex Pro Mouse Cytokine 23-plex and Bio-Plex Pro TGF-β Assays (Bio-Rad), IFN beta Mouse ProcartaPlex Simplex Kit and IL-28B/(IFN lambda 3) Mouse ELISA kit (eBioscience), as recommended by the manufacturer. The samples were acquired and analyzed using Bioplex-200 with the Bioplex Manager 6.1.1. The data were normalized by (the amount of cytokine/ml) ∗ (extraction volume) divided by the weight of the lung tissue (mg).

Virus Titration in Lungs
Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells were obtained from ATCC (ATCC; Manassas, VA, USA) and propagated in growth media containing Modified Eagle’s Medium (MEM) with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS; Hyclone, Logan, UT), 2 mM L-glutamine, 1.5 g/l sodium bicarbonate, non-essential amino acids, 100 U/ml of penicillin, 100 μg/ml of streptomycin, and incubated at 37°C in 5% CO2. 16-24 hours before the assay, 24-well plates were seeded with 500 ul of MDCK cells suspended at a concentration of 5x104cells/mL Lung tissues were homogenized in a bullet blender, and spun for 10 minutes at 2,000 RPM in a refrigerated centrifuge. Supernatants were collected and and 10-fold serial dilutions of the supernatant were used to infect MDCK cells grown to 90% confluency in 24-well plates, and incubated for 1hr at 37C; each sample was tested in duplicate wells. Cells were then washed with warm PBS and incubated in media containing 1% SeaPlaque agarose (Lonza, Basel, Switzerland) and TPCK-treated trypsin (final concentration of 10ug/ml). After 48hr incubation, cells were fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin (NBF) for 1 hour, agarose plugs removed, and distinct plaques were counted at a given dilution to determine the plaque forming units (PFU) of virus per sample.
By utilizing molecular cloning, protein binding assays and RT-qPCR to identify novel cellular partners of CCM1 and its cellular expression patterns; by screening candidate PTB/PH proteins and subsequently structurally simulation in combining with current X-ray crystallography and NMR data to defined the essential structure of PTB/PH domain for NPXY-binding and the relationship among PTB, PH and FERM domain(s).
Candidate PTB/PH domains and full-length PTB-containing proteins (Suppl. Table 1) accompanied by full-length CCM1 (FLHK) and NPXY-containing fragments of CCM1, K2 (Residues 1–207), K5 (Residues 208–245), K8 (Residues 240–306) and K12 (Residues 208–306), were amplified with Platinum Pfx50 DNA Polymerase (Invitrogen) [15]. For yeast two-hybrid analysis, both GAL4 binding domain and activation domain fusion constructs were assembled by cloning amplified fragments into pGBKT7 and pGADT7 vectors, respectively (BD Clontech) [15,16]. For in vitro protein binding assays, PTB domain and NPXY motif fusion constructs were assembled by cloning amplified fragments into pcDNA3.1/V5/HIS-TOPO and pcDNA4/HisMax-TOPO vectors (Invitrogen) for mammalian, and pGEX-4 T-1 (GE), pBAD-TOPO (Invitrogen) and pCOLDII (TaKaRa) vectors for bacterial expression systems.
Yeast two-hybrid analysis was performed with a standard liquid phase β-galactosidase assay using o-nitrophenyl-D-galactoside (ONPG) (BD Clontech). β-galactosidase activity identifies the degree of interaction between pGBKT7 and pGADT7 constructs calculated as Miller units. Binding of the NPXY motif- PTB domain was determined by a β- galactosidase liquid assay in selective (–His/–Ade) medium. To minimize intergroup measurement variation, the measurement of each transformant was normalized and converted to relative β-galactosidase activity (RBGA = Miller units of each transformant/max [Miller units of controls in the same group]). Results for each experiment reflect the performance of three independent assays for each of three independent transformants, each of which is an average of triplicates.
In vitro co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was performed as previously described [15,16]. The proteins were expressed in BL 21 cells for GST-tagged (GE) and HIS-tagged (TaKaRa) constructs and LMG194 cells for HIS-tagged constructs (Invitrogen) while potential target proteins were expressed with TNT® Quick Coupled Transcription/Translation and E. coli S30 Extract Systems (Promega) with S35-labeled methionine. The expressions were confirmed by Western blots. Standard in vitro pull-down assays were performed with MagneGST Glutathione Particles (Promega) for GST-tagged proteins and dynabeads (Invitrogen) for HIS-tagged proteins. Anti-GST and Anti-HIS antibodies (Santa Cruz) were also used in Western Blot and pull-down assays. In competition-binding assays, GST tagged PTB/PH domains were mixed with initial 100 μL Icap1a PTB domain and increasing volumes of Icap1 a PTB domain were titrated.

Recombinantly expressed proteins were purified with chromatography, GST-tagged PTB/PH domains were purified with GSTrap HP column (GE), while HIS-tagged NPXY motifs were purified using HiTrap TALON column (GE), followed by size-exclusion column, S100-HR (GE).

The molecular modeling of tertiary structure of PTB/PH domains was established by Iterative Threading ASSEmbly Refinement (I-TASSER), a long-time top-ranked hierarchical approach listed in CASP (Critical Assessment of Techniques for Protein Structure Prediction) [31,32]. RasMol (version 2.7.5) was used for the structure visualization.
The binding interaction between PTB/PH domains and NPXY motifs were quantified by three label-free and real-time detection platforms; Bio-Layer Interferometry (BLI), Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR) and Isothermal Titration Calorimetry (ITC). BLI binding scouting experiments were carried out on Octet RED96 platform (ForteBio) at single analyte concentration (1 μM). SPR binding experiments were performed on Biacore 3000 (GE) at 25 °C. The capture antibody goat anti- GST antibody was directly immobilized by amine coupling (EDC/NHS) at 5000 RU (Response units) on 4 flow cells of the CM5 (GE). The unoccupied sites were blocked with 1 M ethanol amine. Among four chamber cells, GST alone on flow cell 1 as blank for reference subtraction and GST-tagged PTB/PH proteins on flow-cell 2, 3 and 4 were captured. The analytes were flowed over the chip at variable concentrations. Full kinetic analyses were initiated at high concentration followed by 2 fold serial dilutions. Binding of analyte to the ligand was monitored in real time. The flow rate used for capturing the ligand is 5 μL/min. The flow rate for kinetics analysis is 30 μL/min. Equilibrium KD values were determined from the observed on rate (ka) and off rate (kd). Chi square (χ2) analysis was carried out to determine the accuracy of the analysis using the BIAnalysis software. Similarly, ITC analysis were performed in ITC200 (Malvern) at 15 °C. Purified target and bait proteins were eluted in 1 × PBS buffer. ITC data fitting were performed in the Origin software.

Dynamic light scattering (DLS) provides a measure of protein hydrodynamic diameter and permits an assessment of protein-protein self-association. Protein samples in 1× PBS were centrifuged for 10 min at 1200 rpm to sediment any possible protein precipitate. A 10 μL aliquot of supernatant for each sample was applied to a separate well of a Corning 384-well glass bottom plate, and 5 μL of mineral oil was then applied on top of each sample to prevent solvent evaporation at higher temperatures. The DLS profiles at 25 °C for samples with and without mineral oil showed no differences. The sample plate was centrifuged for 15 min at 1600 rpm to remove bubbles from the sample wells. The DLS data were acquired on a DynaPro PlateReader II (Wyatt Technology Corporation, Santa Barbara, CA), with a 5 s acquisition time, 128 acquisitions per experiment, and auto-attenuation of the laser power. The data were recorded from 25 °C to 75 °C, in five-degree increments with an incubation period of 15 min in between each temperature point. The resulting autocorrelation functions were exported to DYNALS (Alongo, Ltd.) for multi-exponential analysis. Apparent melting temperatures were obtained by estimating the temperature midpoint of the coupled oligomerization and unfolding reactions.
HPLC purified PTB domains were added to FlowPIP Buffer 1 (1 × PBS, pH 7.4, 1% BSA, 1% GS, 0.09% sodium azide) with FlowPIP Bead Mix at volume of 250 μL, incubated at 4 °C overnight with gentle agitation; then FlowPIP Bead Mix were washed three times with 250 μL FlowPIP Buffer 2 (1× PBS, pH 7.4, 1% BSA, 1% GS, 0.05% Tween 20, 0.09% sodium azide), followed by the addition of Alexa Fluor 488 anti- GST IgG (Molecular Probes) in 250 μL of FlowPIP Buffer 1 (final concentration of 2 μg/mL), incubate for 1 h at RT with gentle agitation, FlowPIP Bead Mix were washed three times with 250 μL FlowPIP Buffer 2; after the final wash, the FlowPIP Bead Mix were resolved into 300 μL 1 × PBS buffer for binding assays on BD Accuri C6 flow cytometer according to manufacturer’s instructions (Echelon Biosciences).
Real-time PCR (qPCR) assays were used to quantify the relative expression level of CCM1 in different tissues and cell lines using Power SYBR Green Master Mix with a primer-set for CCM1 (KRIT01F1: TGCATGCTGGTATGGAAAAG/KRIT01R1:CGTTTCTGGGTGGTTTAGGA) in a ViiA-7 Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems). TissueScan™ Real-Time PCR panels (HMRT100, 103, CSRT502) and human β-actin control primers (Origene) were used to determine the relative expression levels of CCM1 in multiple human tissues. Human brain tissues and cell-line qPCR plates were prepared using an epMotion 5075 automated liquid handling systems (Eppendorf). The qPCR data were analyzed with DataAssist (ABI) and Rest 2009 software (Qiagen). The relative expression level (2-ACT) was calculated from all samples and normalized to reference gene (β-actin). All experiments were performed with triplicates.
For multiple comparisons in yeast two-hybrid analysis, one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to detect the differences in the mean values among the groups. All pairwise multiple comparison procedures (Tukey’s t-test) were used to test the difference between each group. In qPCR analysis, pairwise t-tests were performed for all paired samples (normal/tumor) using SPSS 11.5 and graphed by Sigmaplot 12.0.
Procedures were approved by the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden (CZBG, 15-128) and Jacksonville Zoo and Gardens (JZG) Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees. Faecal collection and hormone analysis were conducted from December 2016 through October 2017 on six N. beyeri breeding pairs at JZG. All animals were sexually mature having entered captivity from the wild in 2008 as juveniles. Each pair was housed in 22-gallon containers with flow-through design (i.e. inflow on one end and outflow on the other end via standpipe). Each container held ~10 gallons of water at any time. Pea gravel was used as substrate, and 8″–10″ clay saucers served as hide/oviposition sites. Water flowed into a sump through 100- and 10-micron filters, respectively, with UV sterilization applied to water before returning to the container. Diet consisted of live red wigglers (Eisenia fetida), European nightcrawlers (Eisenia hortensis), Canadian nightcrawlers (Lumbricus terrestris) and captive-reared mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis). Water temperature (Aqua Logic Inc., digital temperature controller) and light cycle varied throughout the year to simulate wild conditions (Shoop, 1965, Stoops et al., 2014). Specifically, at the beginning of October water temperature declined in 2°F increments each week from a seasonal high of 74°F to a seasonal low of 44°F achieved on 08 January 2017. This temperature (44°F) was maintained for 52 days before being incrementally increased on the first week of March 2017. Each tank reached the seasonal high water temperature (74°F) by 11 June 2017 and stayed there for 112 days until the seasonal decline was initiated during the first week of October 2017. Dates of faecal collection, spermatophore deposition and oviposition were recorded. A single adult non-breeding male N. maculosus (95 mm snout–vent length, SVL) at CZBG maintained in a 30-gallon glass tank with constant 70°F water and exposed to natural room lighting was subject to waterborne hormone analysis.
Faecal samples were collected using individual pipettes, transferred to 1.5-mL Eppendorf tubes, labelled with tank ID and date and stored at −20°C. Frozen samples were shipped on dry ice from JZG to the CZBG endocrine lab where they were freeze-dried (Benchtop Freeze Dry system, VirTis Warminster, PA), weighed to ≥0.05 g into 15-mL polypropylene conical tubes (USA Scientific, Ocala Florida), extracted with 80% MEOH at a dilution factor of 20 and rotated overnight (Kummrow et al., 2011). After rotation, samples were centrifuged (2800 g, 15 min), and the supernatant was removed and stored in 2-mL cryovials at −20°C before analysis.
Nitrile gloves were worn throughout all waterborne collection processes. Three separate anaesthetic procedures were conducted (Calatayud et al., 2019, Stoops et al., 2014) on N. maculosus at 3- to 5-week intervals; two procedures were associated with a single i.p. injection (27G, 125 μL) of 10.7 IU ACTH (A6303; Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) dissolved in sterile water, and one control procedure consisted of i.p. injection of 125 μL sterile water only. Before anesthetic procedures, 1 L volumes of adjusted RO water (0.2 g MgSO4 per liter) were prepared for each time point that waterborne hormone analysis was collected post-injection (Fig. 1). Injections were performed between 08:00 and 10:00 to not confound any circadian cycle in inter-renal activity. Following full anaesthetic recovery, the animal was moved to a glass 2.5-gallon tank (12′ × 6′ × 8′) filled with 1 L adjusted RO water, where it remained undisturbed for 30 min, for the collection of secreted/excreted hormones. For each collection time, the animal was moved to a new tank containing fresh 1 L adjusted RO water. Glass tanks used for collection were rinsed thoroughly with hot tap water three times and dried before reuse. Collection of baseline wCM concentrations was conducted when the specimen was not subjected to anaesthesia. The animal was removed from its tank at 09:00 and immediately transferred to 1 L adjusted RO water where it remained for the 30-min collection period.
Water samples were filtered (Whatman®, 11 μm pore size) using Supelclean LC-18 Solid Phase Extraction columns (Sigma-Aldrich., 505471) connected to a custom manifold. Cap adapters (Sigma Aldrich, 57 020-U) were placed on top of each column, and Tygon tubing (R-3603) connected the cap to each 1-L sample. The manifold consisted of a 2-L glass filter flask fitted with a size 6 rubber cork that had four vertically driven 14G needles fitted into it for the columns to attach. Columns were primed twice with 2 mL MeOH followed by 3 mL of nanopure water before samples were drawn through the system via vacuum pull. Following manufacturer instructions, the flow rate did not exceed 5 mL/min and atmospheres for the system did not exceed 20 Hg. After the entire 1-L sample volume passed through the column, it was flushed with 3 mL nanopure water. Elution was carried out by two successive additions of 2 mL MeOH to each column. Eluted samples were collected into 13 × 100-mm glass tubes and dried overnight under a stream of air, reconstituted in 500 μL assay buffer (0.045 M NaH2PO4, 0.061 M Na2HPO4, 0.149 M NaCl and 0.1% bovine serum albumin, pH 7.5), vortexed (30 s) and sonicated (5 min; Branson Ultrasonic Corp., Danbury, CT, USA) before being stored at −20°C until analysis.
Concentrations of immunoreactive corticosterone metabolites in faecal and water samples were quantified by enzyme immunoassay (EIA) employing a horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated label (1:100 000 dilution) and a polyclonal primary antibody (CMJ006; 1:80 000 dilution) provided by Coralie Munro, University of California, Davis. The primary antiserum cross-reacted with corticosterone (100%), desoxycorticosterone (14.25%) and progesterone (2.65%). Pre-coated secondary antibody-coated plates were utilized for the corticosterone EIA. The 96-well microtitre plates (Nunc-Immuno MaxiSorp, Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA) were prepared by adding a 150-μL volume of pre-diluted (10 μg/mL) goat anti-rabbit IgG (A009; Arbor Assays, Ann Arbor, MI, USA) in a coating buffer (X108, 20X; Arbor Assays) to all wells and incubating at RT for 24 h. Contents of each well were emptied, plates blotted dry and blocking solution (X109, 10X; Arbor Assays) added to each well (250 μL) before incubating again at RT for 24 h. After incubation, the contents of all wells were emptied, and plates were blotted dry and stored (RT, humidity ≤ 20%) until use in a Dry Keeper (Sanplatec Corp., Osaka, Japan) containing desiccant pellets. Before use, plates were removed from the Dry Keeper and kept at RT for a minimum 20 min before the assay buffer (0.045 M NaH2PO4, 0.061 M Na2HPO4, 0.149 M NaCl and 0.1% bovine serum albumin, pH 7.5) was added to the blank (100-μL) and zero (50-μL) wells. Corticosterone standards (range 78–20 000 pg/mL; E1752; Sigma-Aldrich), samples (50 μL) and internal controls (50 μL) diluted in the assay buffer were added in duplicate, combined with corticosterone–HRP (50 μL) followed by the addition of 50 μL primary antibody, except for blank wells, and shaken covered from light at RT for 2 h. Plates were washed three times with wash buffer before 100 μL of substrate solution (0.05 M C6H8O7, 0.4 mM ABTS) was added. After incubation for 30–60 min at RT with shaking, the absorbance was measured at 405 nM (VersaMax plate reader, Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA, USA) once the optical density approached 0.9–1.0. Any results with ≥ 10% CV between duplicates were reanalyzed.

If sample results indicated binding was not within the linear portion of the standard curve, samples were diluted accordingly. In general, faecal extracts were run at a 1:2 or 1:3 dilution and extracted water samples were run neat except for the 4-hACTH challenge sample (1:10) due to its concentration exceeding the sensitivity of the assay. Internal controls (representing 78% and 44% binding or 2000 and 400 pg/mL, respectively) were added to each plate. Mean inter- and intra-assay variations for the corticosterone EIAs were <15%.
The corticosterone EIA was validated for N. beyeri faecal extracts by conducting tests of parallelism, accuracy/recovery and extraction efficiency (Brown et al., 2005). To test for parallelism, pooled faecal extracts were serially diluted (neat-1:128) and assayed. Assay accuracy/recovery check was determined by spiking each standard 1:1 with pooled N. beyeri faecal extract containing a relatively low endogenous concentration (120 pg/well). Faecal extraction efficiency was determined by adding a known amount of standard (4000 pg/mL) to a pooled dried faecal sample prior to extraction. Similarly, efficiency of waterborne hormone extraction was analyzed through recovery of native hormone added to 1 L adjusted RO water (0.2 g MgSO4/L). Given that all waterborne hormone samples used the same onsite water source, the background wCM concentration was determined by extracting 1 L adjusted RO water that did not contain any exogenous hormone added to it.
Microsoft Excel and SigmaStat were used for statistical analysis. Standard descriptive statistics were used to summarize results. Data are presented as means ± SEM, and differences were considered significant at P < 0.05. Hormone data were normalized using logarithmic transformations. T tests were used to compare fCM concentrations between breeding (Dec–Mar) and non-breeding (Apr–Jul) months and fCM concentrations excreted between those breeding pairs where females did and did not oviposit eggs. Parallelism results for corticosterone were plotted as percentage of antibody bound versus log [relative dose]. Differences between slopes of the binding curves for the serially diluted pool and the standard curve were assessed with an F test. Accuracy/recovery check results were plotted as amount observed versus amount expected and assessed by linear regression, with acceptable accuracy defined as r2 ≥ 0.99 and slope within 0.85–1.15 (Brown et al., 2005). Extraction efficiency was determined by (amount observed—background/amount expected−background)*100. Individual values for faecal samples are represented in nanograms per gram of dry mass faeces (dmf). Raw wCM data (i.e. pg/mL) was multiplied by resuspension volume (0.5 mL), and the value of the background wCM sample was subtracted from salamander wCM values to determine the amount released by the animal. Finally, we divided by SVL to present the release rate of wCM in units of picograms per SVL. Concentrations of wCM following ACTH and sterile water injections are presented as fold change relative to baseline, with a basal concentration equal to 1.
The preadipocyte cell line, 3T3-L1, which is derived from mouse embryonic fibroblasts, was purchased from ATCC. The cells were cultured in growth medium (high glucose DMEM containing a 1% antibiotic-antimycotic solution and 10% bovine calf serum; Gibco-Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) at 37°C in a humidified atmosphere with 5% CO2. GP2-293 packaging cells were grown in DMEM containing a 1% antibiotic-antimycotic solution and 10% FBS. 3T3-L1 cells were induced to differentiate into mature adipocytes as described in our previous reports (18–21). Confluent 3T3-L1 cells were incubated in differentiation medium composed of DMEM, 10% FBS, and MDI (a differentiation cocktail of 0.5 mM 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, 1 μM dexamethasone, and 10 μg/ml insulin [Sigma, US]). After 48 h, the medium was changed to a maintenance medium composed of DMEM, 10% FBS, and 10 μg/ml insulin. The medium was replenished every other day.
Cultured cells were washed twice with PBS and fixed with 10% formalin for 30 min at room temperature. The cells were then washed with distilled water and stained for 30 min at room temperature with 0.3% filtered Oil-Red-O solution in 60% isopropanol (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). The stained cells were washed with distilled water, and micrographs were obtained. To extract the incorporated Oil-Red-O dye, absolute isopropanol was added to the stained cell-culture dish, and the dish was shaken at room temperature for 30 min. Triplicate samples were read at 510 nm using a GeneQuant 1300 spectrophotometer (GE HealthCare, Uppsala, Sweden) (20, 21).
The proteins were extracted from 3T3-L1 cells using a lysis buffer (30 mM Tris [pH 8.5], 7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, and 4% 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)-dimethylammonio propanesulfonate [CHAPS]). Protein samples to be separated on the same gel were pooled, and 2 volumes of cold acetone were added. After centrifugation, the precipitate was rehydrated using a rehydration buffer (7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 4% CHAPS, 2% ampholyte, and 20 mM DTT), and isoelectric focusing was conducted using a Multiphor II apparatus (GE HealthCare). After focusing, each strip (a 7 cm immobilized pH nonlinear strip [pH 3–11]) was equilibrated twice for 15 min in 2.5 ml of equilibrium buffer. The equilibrium buffer contains 50 mM Tris (pH 8.8), 6 M urea, and 30% glycerol. During the second equilibrium step, 260 mM iodoacetamide was added to the equilibrium buffer. The IPG strips were then loaded and separated on a 10% acrylamide SDS-PAGE gel using a Mini-Protean system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA
Sixty micrograms of total protein was used for the detection of lysine acetylated proteins during adipogenic differentiation. The samples were separated in the first and second dimension following previously described protocols (22, 23) and transferred to an Immunoblot PVDF membrane (Millipore). Membranes were blocked with 5% skim milk for 1 h and probed with a rabbit anti-acetyl-lysine antibody (ICP0380 Immunechem) diluted 1:2,000 in TBS with 5% skim milk for 4 h at 4°C as previously described (21).
The separated proteins in SDS-PAGE gels were visualized by Coomassie brilliant blue G-250 staining, and spots of interest were detected. Gel pieces were washed twice with 150 μl of 100 mM ammonium bicarbonate (pH 8.2) and 70% v/v acetonitrile and dried at 37°C for 20 min. Trypsin in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate (20 μg/μl) was added to each gel piece, and gel pieces were incubated at 37°C for 2 h. Peptides were then extracted using a mixture containing 20 μl of 0.1% v/v trifluoroacetic acid and 70% acetonitrile. The peptides were purified using ZipTipsTM (Millipore) according to the manufacturer's instructions before LC-MS/MS spectrometric analysis. The peptides were analyzed using a Synapt High Definition mass spectrometer (Waters, Manchester, UK) as previously described (24, 25).
To construct 3T3-L1 cells that stably express a FLAG-tagged wild-type or mutant MDH1 protein, a retroviral infection system was used. For the expression of MDH1, DNA encoding the FLAG-tagged MDH1 was inserted into 3T3-L1 cells using the pRetroX-IRES-ZsGreen1 vector (Clontech). For virus production, GP2-293 cell lines were transfected using Lipofectamine 2000 (Gibco-Invitrogen). The details of the transfection and transduction methods have been described in our previous reports (18–21, 26). Infected cells were selected using a FACSAria cell sorter (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) and further maintained in growth medium. The ectopic expression of MDH1 was confirmed by Western blot analysis.
FLAG-tagged MDH1 was mutated using the EZchangeTM Site-Directed Mutagenesis kit (Enzynomics, KR). The putative acetylation sites in MDH1 were mutated to arginine or glutamine. Arginine is charged and abolishes acetylation, whereas glutamine is uncharged and may mimic the acetylated lysine. The sites mutated in this study were based on those reported by Zhao et al. (K118, K121, and K298) (5). We introduced the mutation into each site individually or at all three sites of MDH1.
Sequences from the wild-type and mutant MDH1 gene were amplified using the forward primer 5′- gggaattccatatgatgtctgaaccaatcagagtc-3′ containing an NdeI site (in bold) and the reverse primer 5′-ccgctcgagttaggcagaggaaagaaattcaaa-3′ containing a XhoI site (in bold) and inserted into the corresponding sites of the pET28a plasmid (Novagen, Madison, WI). Escherichia coli Rosetta DE3 cells (Novagen) carrying the respective expression plasmids were grown at 37°C in LB medium until the optical density at A600 reached 0.6–0.8. The expression of MDH1 and MDH1 mutants was induced by adding 1 mM IPTG at 18°C for 18 h. The cells were harvested, washed with lysis buffer (50 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 250 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, and 1 mM β-mercaptoethanol), and lysed by ultrasonication. After centrifugation (29,820 g for 30 min), the supernatants were incubated with a cobalt affinity resin (TALON®, Clontech) on a rocker for 1 h at 4°C and washed with lysis buffer supplemented with 10 mM imidazole. The proteins were eluted from the metal affinity resin using a lysis buffer supplemented with 100 mM imidazole. The proteins were concentrated to 5 mg/ml and stored at −80°C.
The cells were washed three times with ice-cold PBS and were harvested in ice-cold 7 M urea lysis buffer containing a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The protein concentrations were measured using a Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). Immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation were performed as described previously. The anti-MDH1 antibody was obtained from Santa Cruz, and the acetyl-lysine antibody was purchased from ImmuneChem Pharmaceuticals Inc. Anti-FLAG and anti-α-tubulin antibodies were purchased from Sigma. Anti-enolase1 and anti-histone H3 antibodies were obtained from Cell Signaling (Beverley, MA). The secondary antibodies were purchased from Abcam. The membranes were visualized using the SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate kit (Pierce, Rockford, IL).

For immunoprecipitation, anti-acetyl-lysine antibody agarose beads (ImmuneChem Pharmaceuticals Inc.) were added to 200 μg of the lysates. The mixture was incubated overnight at 4°C. The immunoprecipitates were recovered by centrifugation at 2,500 g, washed five times with NP-40 lysis buffer, and analyzed as described above.
Cell pellets were lysed with NP-40 buffer supplemented with a protease inhibitor (Roche, Indianapolis, IN) and a KDAC inhibitor (10 µM trichostatin A, 10 mM nicotinamide, and 50 mM butyric acid; Sigma, US) (5). For immunoprecipitation, extracted proteins were incubated with anti-FLAG M2 agarose beads (Sigma) at 4°C overnight. The immunoprecipitated beads were washed 10 times with NP-40 buffer, and then the FLAG fusion proteins were eluted using a 3×FLAG peptide (Sigma). The concentration of the eluted proteins was measured using a Bradford assay and Coomassie blue G-250 staining. Purified human MDH1 that was overexpressed in 3T3-L1 cells was incubated with 0.2 mM oxaloacetate and 1 mM NADH in PBS (pH 7.5). The activity of MDH1 was determined by measuring the decrease in the fluorescence of NADH (Ex. 350 nm; Em. 470 nm). The reaction was monitored 15 times at 1-min intervals on a VictorTM X3 Multilabel plate reader (PerkinElmer, Waltham, MA).
Commercial NADP/NADPH assay kits (Abcam, Cambridge, UK) were used to detect NADPH and total NADP. The cells were washed three times with ice-cold PBS and placed in NADP/NADPH extraction buffer. The washed cells were extracted by two freeze (20 min on dry-ice)/thaw (10 min at room temperature) cycles, and then the cell lysates were dissolved in buffer using gentle sonication. The concentration of the eluted proteins was measured using a Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). To calculate the NADP/NADPH ratio, total NADP (NADPt) and NADPH-only were prepared, and an NADPH standard was made using a serial dilution of NADPH. The NADPH reaction was monitored on a microplate reader (Bio-Rad) for 1 to 4 h at 450 nm.
Human myeloid leukemia HL60 cells and human breast cancer BT474 cells were purchased from the Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology (Shanghai, China). Human myeloid leukemia NB4 cells and the HL60 resistant cell line HL60R were gifts from Dr. Lingtao Wu (University of Southern California, Los Angeles). Upon arrival in our laboratory, the cells were grown and were frozen as seed stocks as they became available. Both cell lines were passaged for a maximum of 2 months, after which, new seed stocks were thawed. Both of the cell lines were authenticated using DNA fingerprinting (variable number of tandem repeats), confirming that no cross-contamination occurred during this study. Both of the cell lines were tested for mycoplasma contamination at least every month. The HL60, HL60R and NB4 cell lines were cultured in RPMI-1640 media (Gibco BRL). The 293FT cells were cultured in Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium. All of the media were supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (Gibco BRL) and 1% penicillin/streptomycin. The cell lines were maintained at 37 °C in a humidified atmosphere containing 5% CO2. Primary cells from AML patients (Children’s Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine) were isolated using lymphocyte monocyte separation medium.

ATRA was purchased from Sigma and dissolved in ethanol. Mubritinib (TAK165) was purchased from Selleck. Nitrobluetetrazolium (NBT), PD98059, U0126, and sp600125 were from Calbiochem (San Diego, CA). SB203580 was obtained from MERCK. They all were dissolved in DMSO and stored at −20 °C. In all of the experiments, the final DMSO solvent concentration was ≤0.2% (v/v).
The total cell number and the viability were assessed by trypan blue exclusion with manual counting in Burkerchambers. The cell cycle distribution was detected by a flow cytometry measurement of the DNA content after the cells were incubated with RNase A (10 μg/ml) and propidium iodide (50 μg/ml). The cellular DNA content was analyzed on a FACS Calibur flow cytometer using the Cell Quest Pro software (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA). A percentage of each population was measured using Mod FIT software (BD Biosciences). At least 20 000 cells were analyzed for each data point.
The induction of cell differentiation was determined by assessing morphologic changes, CD11b expression, and a nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction assay.

To assess CD11b expression, the cells (1 × 106) were harvested and washed with PBS, blocked with 3% bovine serum albumin (BSA) in PBS for 30 minutes, and incubated with anti-human CD11b antibody (PE conjugated) for 45 minutes on ice. After incubation, the CD11b expression levels were analyzed with a FACS Calibur flow cytometer (BD Biosciences).

To assess NBT reduction, the cells (5 × 105) were harvested and incubated with PBS containing NBT (1 mg/mL) and freshly diluted 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-l3-acetate (TPA; 1 mg/mL) at 37 °C for 30 minutes. The cytospin slides were prepared and examined for cells containing precipitated formazan particles. At least 200 cells were assessed for each experiment.

The cell morphology was evaluated by Wright-Giemsa staining. The cytospin preparations were fixed with methanol and air-dried. The slides were then stained with the Wright–Giemsa solution and examined with a Leica microscope, and the images were captured with a Leica DFC300 FX charge coupled device camera.
Protein extracts were resolved by 8% to 15% SDS-PAGE. The proteins were transferred onto polyvinylidenedifluoride (PVDF) membranes; the membranes were blocked with 5% nonfat dry milk and incubated with primary antibodies. Antibodies against c-Myc (3G32), p-STAT1 (Tyr701), ERK1 (K-23), JNK (FL), MEK1/2, p38 (H-147), p-MEK-1 (Thr291), p-ERK1/2 (Thr204), and GAPDH (FL-335) were obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA). PU.1, p21 waf1/CIP1, p-STAT1 (Ser727), p-p38, MAPK (Thr180/Tyr182), p27/Kip1 (D37H1), STAT1, C/EBPβ (LAP), and p-SAPK/JNK (Thr183/Tyr185) antibodies were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology (Danvers, MA). The western blot was visualized using HRP-conjugated secondary antibodies (Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories, Inc., West Grove, PA), followed by enhanced chemiluminescence detection (Biological Industries, BeitHaemek, Israel)
Total RNA was extracted from1 × 106 cells with the Trizol reagent (Bio Basic, Inc.), and cDNA was synthesized using 2 μg of total RNA with RevertAid M-MuLV Reverse Transcriptase (Fermentas International, Inc.). Equal amounts of cDNA were taken for transcript PCR amplification, which was carried out using QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR Kits (Qiagen, Inc.). Glyceraldehyde- 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) was used as an internal standard. The primers used for PCR were as follows: PU.1: forward 5′-ATGTGCCTCCAGTACCCATC-3′, reverse 5′-TCTTCTGGTAGGTCATCTTC-3′; CEBPB: forward 5′-ACAGCGACGAGTACAAGATCC-3′, reverse 5′-GCAGCTGCTTGAACAAGTTCC-3′; CEBPE: forward 5′-CAGCCACTCGAGTTCTCAGG-3′, reverse 5 ′-TGGCTTCACGGCAAAGAGAT-3′; RARB: forward 5′-TTCAGTGCAAGGGAGATCT-3′, reverse 5′-GACGGACTCGCAGTGTAGAAATC-3′; PXN: forward 5′-CATGTACGTCCCCACGAACTG-3′; reverse 5′-CACTGCTGAAATATGAGGAAGAGATG-3′. The PCR protocol consisted of thermal cycling as follows: an initial denaturation at 95 °C for 2 min followed by 40 cycles of 95 °C for 20 s; 58 °C for 30 s; and 72 °C for 30 s using an Eppendorfep Gradient Mastercycler (Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany). In all of the experiments, two negative controls were carried through all of the steps.
Recombinant lentiviruses were produced by co-transfecting the 293FT cells with pCCL-RARα (a kind gift from Dr. Lingtao Wu at the University of Southern California or a STAT1 shRNA expression plasmid (RHS4533-NM_007315; Open Biosystems), pRΔ8.9 packaging plasmids and pMD.G envelope plasmids. Supernatants containing the infectious virus particles were collected 48 h after the transfection and then used to transduce the AML cells by spinoculation in the presence of polybrene (6 μg/mL). The expression of RARα or STAT1 was analyzed by western blot.
ANOVA or Student unpaired, 2-tailed t tests were used when appropriate.
In silico analysis of PAF expression in lung cancer patients was analyzed using Oncomine (https://www.oncomine.org) and the GEO database (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo). For Oncomine data, we analyzed cDNA microarray datasets of all cancers and normal tissue samples (p < 0.0001; fold change > 2; 10% top-ranked). The accession number GDS1650 with probes and 38116_at was selected for GEO analysis. For assessing PAF expression in human lung cancer samples, lung cancer tissue microarrays (BC041115c and LC721; Biomax) were used for IHC using a PAF (G-11) antibody.

Kaplan–Meier survival analysis
Kaplan–Meier survival analysis was performed using the publicly available database Kaplan-Meier Plotter (http://kmplot.com/analysis/). In the lung cancer gene-chip dataset, the correlation analysis was performed with the following options: two probes for PAF/KIAA0101 (202503_s_at and 211713_x_at); splitting patients by median; follow-up threshold: 60 months; restrict analysis to subtypes of histology: NSCLC, LUAD, and LUSC. In the pan-cancer RNA-Seq dataset, the correlation analysis was performed with the following options: RNA-Seq ID: PCLAF (PAF/KIAA0101); splitting patients by median; follow-up threshold: 60 months; restrict analysis to subtypes of histology: LUAD and LUSC; log-rank test.

Plasmids, transfections, and viral infections
Viral infection and selection of human NSCLC cell lines were performed as previously described (Jung et al., 2013). Human shRNAs against PAF (shPAF#1, TRCN0000278496; shPAF#2, TRCN0000278497) were used for generating PAF KD cells. To obtain stable Paf KD murine lung cancer cell lines, shRNAs against Paf (GIPZ mouse Pclaf shRNA, Dharmacon; V2LMM_11233, V2LMM_16348) were used. Lentivirus-infected KP cells were sorted by FACS (GFP positive) and continuously selected by puromycin (2∼5 μg/mL). Cell lines transfected with shGFP (TRC shRNA) or empty vector (GIPZ empty) were used as controls. Plasmids encoding the open reading frames of PAF and RBBP4 were obtained from the Functional Genomics Core Facility at MD Anderson Cancer Center. All gene expression plasmids were constructed from cDNA libraries or ORF sources using PCR and cloned into pcDNA-3xFLAG (N terminus) or pLenti-3xFLAG (N terminus)-hygro mammalian expression plasmids, as previously performed (Jung et al., 2013). pLenti-3xFLAG (N terminus)-hygro plasmids were used for rescue experiments (hygromycin selection, 150∼200 μg/mL). Mutant constructs were generated by site-directed mutagenesis using PCR. The pcDNA-HA-p130 plasmid was kindly provided by Larisa Litovchick.

CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing
Knockout (KO) of p130 was performed by CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing using pLentiCRISPRv2 (Addgene plasmid #52961). Five single guide RNA (sgRNA) targeting sequences against exon 1 of p130 were designed using Benchling software (https://www.benchling.com/crispr/) and cloned into a pLentiCRISPRv2-hygro vector. An empty sgRNA vector was used as a negative control. After 1 week of selection with 150 μg/mL hygromycin, the pool of lentivirus-infected A549 shPAF#2 cells were collected and subjected to western blotting to determine the p130 protein level. The five targeting sequences against p130 were: #1: 5′-GGGTGCGCTATGCCGTCGGG-3′, #2: 5′-CTCAGATCCAGCAGCGGTTC-3′, #3: 5′-CCTCAACATGGACGAGGCGG-3′, #4: 5′-CAGCATGAGCGAAAGCTACA-3′, and #5: 5′-CATGAGCGAAAGCTACACGC-3′.

RNA-sequencing and GSEA
The total RNA from shCtrl- and shPAF-infected KP and H1792 LUAD cells (two biological replicates, n = 2) were used for RNA-Seq. Generation of mRNA libraries, transcriptome sequencing with differential expression analysis were performed by Novogene using an Illumina Hiseq PE150 system. Reads were mapped by Tophat2, and differentially expressed genes were defined by the DESeq2 package for R as padj < 0.05 (mouse) and padj < 0.01 (human). GSEA analysis was performed with normalized fragments per kilobase of transcript per million mapped reads (FPKM) of all genes with default parameters (number of permutations = 1000, collapse dataset = true, permutation type = gene-set, weighted [default, p = 1], and ranked metrics).

Co-expression analysis of PAF and DREAM complex targets
Genes whose expression was correlated with that of PAF were identified by cBioPortal (http://www.cbioportal.org/) using the datasets for LUAD (TCGA, pan-cancer, n = 503 and TCGA, Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network, 2014, n = 230) and by co-expression analysis (mRNA expression Z-score threshold ± 2.0, Spearman correlation > 0.5, p-values and q-values < 10−5). Among the PAF co-expressed genes whose expression overlapped with that of DREAM targets are listed in Table S4.

Gene expression analysis by qRT-PCR
RNAs were extracted by TRIzol (Invitrogen) and used to synthesize cDNAs using the iScript cDNA synthesis kit (Biorad). qRT-PCR was performed using an Applied Biosystems 7500 Real-Time PCR machine with the primers listed in Table S7. Target gene expression was normalized to that of mouse Hprt1 or human GAPDH. Comparative 2−ΔΔCt methods were used for the quantification of qRT-PCR results.

Cell cycle analysis
For cell cycle analysis, trypsinized cells were fixed with 70% ethanol for 2 h at −20°C and washed twice with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Next, 1 × 106 cells were resuspended and incubated with RNase A (20 μg/mL) and propidium iodide solution (50 μg/mL) for 30 min. Singlet cells were analyzed by FACS. For cell synchronization assays, cells were arrested in G1/S by double thymidine block, and released cells (S phase) were collected at each time point for FACS analysis. For the assessment of cells at G0, freshly ethanol-fixed cells (1 × 106) were incubated with pyronin Y (1 μg/mL) and 7-aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD; 5 μg/mL) for 45 min at 37°C, and low-RNA-content cells (low pyronin Y signals) were defined as G0 cells on FACS analysis (Schmid et al., 2000). For analysis of the cell cycle phases of DYRK1A KD cells, an shRNA (co-expressing a GFP reporter) against DYRK1A was transiently transfected into shPAF stably transfected H1792 cells. Cells were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde. Cell cycle phases of GFP-positive (shDYRK1A-transfected) and GFP-negative (uninfected) H1792 cells were analyzed by FACS with 7-AAD staining. All cells were cultured at 60∼80% confluence.

Cell growth assays
To measure cell proliferation, the same number of cells per well were seeded onto six-well plates in triplicate and grown for 3∼6 days. Cell growth rates were analyzed by daily cell counting with a Bio-Rad TC10 automated cell counter or by measuring optical density (OD values, 590 nm) at the end point after crystal violet staining. For cell growth assays with chemical treatment, fresh chemicals were added to the media every 3 days.

Tandem affinity purification and mass spectrometry
TAP-MS was performed as previously described (Jung et al., 2018). Cells were collected in 15 mL ice-cold NETN buffer (20 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 100 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, and 0.5% NP-40; freshly supplemented with proteinase and phosphatase inhibitors) and shaken at 4 °C for 20 min. Lysates were subjected to centrifugation at 4 °C and 13,148 g for 15 min. Transferred supernatants were incubated with streptavidin-conjugated beads (Amersham) for 1 h at 4 °C. After three washes with NETN buffer, the beads were transferred to a new tube, and interacting proteins were eluted with 1.5 mL NETN buffer and 2 mg/mL biotin (Sigma) for 90 min at 4 °C. The eluted proteins were transferred and incubated with S-protein beads (Novagen) for 1 h. The beads were subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE) after three washing steps. Protein bands were excised and subjected to mass spectrometry analysis. After excised gel bands were cut into ∼1 mm3 pieces, in-gel trypsin digestion was performed. Dried samples were reconstituted in 5 μL of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) solvent A (2.5% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid). By packing 5-μm C18 spherical silica beads into a fused-silica capillary (100-μm inner diameter × ∼20-cm length) with a flame-drawn tip, a nanoscale reverse-phase HPLC capillary column was created. After the column was equilibrated, each sample was loaded onto the column using a Famos autosampler (LC Packings), and peptides were eluted with increasing concentrations of solvent B (97.5% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid). Eluted peptides were subjected to electrospray ionization and then entered into an LTQ Velos ion-trap mass spectrometer (Thermo). After peptides were detected, isolated, and fragmented to produce a tandem mass spectrum of specific fragment ions for each peptide, peptide sequences were determined by matching protein databases (the human IPI database version 3.6) with the acquired fragmentation patterns using the software program SEQUEST (version 28) (Thermo). The specificity of the enzyme was set to partially tryptic with two missed cleavages. Carboxyamidomethyl (cysteines, fixed) and oxidation (methionine, variable) were included in the modification. Mass tolerance was set to 2.0 for precursor ions and 1.0 for fragment ions. To achieve a false discovery rate of less than 1% at the peptide level, spectral matches were filtered based on the target-decoy method. Finally, only tryptic matches were reported, and spectral matches were manually examined. Peptides that matched to multiple proteins were assigned so that only the most logical protein was included (Occam’s razor).

Immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting
For IP, whole-cell lysates were extracted using EBC lysis buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% NP-40; freshly supplemented with protease and phosphatase inhibitor mixtures) for 30 min at 4°C, followed by centrifugation (12000 g for 10 min). For IP analysis of exogenous protein-protein interactions, whole-cell lysates extracted from stable cells transfected with Flag-tagged PAF or RBBP4 were incubated for 2 h with 15 μL of M2 magnetic beads (Sigma; M8823). For IP analysis of endogenous protein-protein interactions, whole-cell lysates extracted from control or stably transfected KP or A549 cells (shGFP or shPAF) were incubated overnight with protein G Dynabeads (Thermo) and 2∼5 μg antibodies against PAF (Santa Cruz), PAF (Abcam), RBBP4 (GeneTex), RBBP4 (Bethyl), p130 (Cell Signaling), E2F4 (Bethyl), LIN54 (Bethyl), BMYB (Abcam), and FOXM1 (Santa Cruz). After three to five washes with EBC lysis buffer, precipitates were eluted with SDS sample buffer and analyzed using immunoblotting. For analysis of PAF protein levels in NSCLC and PAF KD cells, radioimmunoprecipitation assay buffer (25 mM Tris, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 1% NP-40, 0.5% sodium deoxycholate, 0.1% SDS, and protease and phosphatase inhibitor mixtures) was used for whole-cell lysate preparation. For in vitro transcription and translation and binding assays, FLAG-PAF, FLAG-RBBP4, and HA-p130 were obtained with an in vitro TnT coupled system (Promega) and immunoprecipitated using anti-HA magnetic beads (Thermo). Immunoblot blocking and antibody incubation were conducted using 2% bovine serum albumin or 5% nonfat dry milk in TBST (25 mM, pH 8.0, 125 mM NaCl, and 0.1% Tween-20). SuperSignal West Pico and Femto (Thermo) were used to detect horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies. The following antibodies were used for immunoblotting: PAF (Santa Cruz, 1:5000), RBBP4 (GeneTex, 1:10000), p130 (Cell Signaling, 1:5000), E2F4 (Bethyl, 1:10000), E2F4 (Santa Cruz, 1:2000), LIN9 (Santa Cruz, 1:2000), LIN54 (Bethyl, 1:10000), FLAG M2 (Thermo,1:20000), and HA (Roche, 1:2000).

Chromatin immunoprecipitation
ChIP assays were performed as previously described with minor modifications (Kim et al., 2018; Litovchick et al., 2007). Briefly, cells were cross-linked with 1% formaldehyde for 15 min at room temperature. Formaldehyde was quenched by adding glycine (final concentration, 0.125 M). After the cells were washed with cold PBS, the cells were harvested with lysis buffer (20 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 85 mM KCl, 0.5% NP-40, freshly supplemented with a protease inhibitor mixture) and rocked at 4°C for 15 min. Pellets containing chromatin were collected by centrifugation, resuspended in nuclear lysis buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 10 mM EDTA, 1% SDS), and subjected to sonication (30 s on and 30 s off, 80 times, Bioruptor 300 [Diagenode]). The supernatant was collected by centrifugation and diluted 20 times in IP buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% NP-40, and a protease inhibitor mixture) and subjected to IP with each antibody. The enrichment of 300∼600 bp of sheared DNA was confirmed by gel electrophoresis. Approximately 20∼30 μg of DNA was used for IP. Diluted protein-DNA complexes were precleared and incubated overnight with preblocked protein G Dynabeads and antibodies at 4°C. Immunoprecipitates were washed serially with LiCl wash buffer (Tris 50 mM, pH 8.0, EDTA 1 mM, LiCl 250 mM, 1% NP-40, and 0.5% deoxycholate), IP buffer, and Tris-EDTA buffer. For DNA extraction, immunoprecipitates were reversely cross-linked by incubation at 65°C overnight, and further incubated with RNase A and proteinase K. Then, ChIP DNAs were isolated using a PCR purification kit (QIAGEN). Control or PAF KD cells (H1792 and KP) were used for ChIP. For PAF ChIP, A549 cells stably expressing FLAG-PAF were used. The following antibodies were used for ChIP: RBBP4 (GeneTex, 1:200), p130 (Cell Signaling, 1:100), LIN54 (Bethyl, 1:200), BMYB (Abcam, 1:100), FOXM1 (Santa Cruz, 1:200), and FLAG M2 (Thermo,1:200). Previously validated DREAM binding sequences of CCNB1, TOP2A, PLK1, and UBE2C promoters were analyzed by ChIP–qPCR (primer sequences are listed in Table S7). Beads only and ACTB promoter amplicons served as negative controls.

Histology and immunohistochemistry
KrasLSL-G12D/+ (K), Paf−/−; KrasLSL-G12D/+ (PK), KrasLSL-G12D/+; Trp53floxed/floxed (KP), and Paf−/−; KrasLSL-G12D/+; Trp53floxed/floxed (PKP) mice were euthanized at the times after Ad-Cre infection indicated in the figures. Lung tissues were perfused with PBS, fixed with 10% formalin, and embedded in paraffin. Lung tumors were first examined by macroscopic observation of the surface of the whole lung and then by microscopic analysis using sectioned samples stained with hematoxylin and eosin. The total number and burden of K and KP lung tumors were measured in the middle sections of each lung. To measure the total number and burden of PK and PKP lung tumors, the tumor-bearing sections of the lungs were screened, and one 5-μm section from the center of the tumor was used for analysis. For IHC analysis, paraffin-sectioned samples were immunostained according to standard protocols (Wang et al., 2016). The following antibodies were used for immunohistochemistry: PAF (Santa Cruz, G-11), Ki67 (Abcam, ab16667), PCNA (Cell Signaling, 13110), cleaved caspase-3 (Cell Signaling, 9664), and RAS (mutated G12D) (Abcam, ab221163).

Non-Invasive Analysis of Lung Tumors
Micro-computed tomography (Micro-CT, XRAD 225Cx) of tumor-bearing KP or PKP mice was performed at the Small Animal Imaging Facility (MD Anderson Cancer Center). 180∼250 of sectioned lung images were obtained from each lung. 3D lung images were then reconstituted and analyzed by ImageJ.
To establish PAF KO mice, two guide RNAs (gRNAs) targeting exon 1 of PAF gene and Cas9 mRNA (Sigma) were injected into the mouse zygotes (The Genetically Engineered Mouse Facility, MD Anderson). gRNA sequences were as follows: #1: 5’-GTTCCCGCCACCGTTTAAATGGG-3’, #2: 5’-ACCAAAGCAAACTACGTTCCAGG-3’. Four strains harboring PAF mutation (gene targeting efficiency: 4/7=57.14%) were identified. Two heterozygote strains (strain 4 and 7) carrying 118bp and 125bp deletion of PAF (PAF null) between the two gRNAs targeted region were selected as founders. Using the strain 7 as a founder, at least 5 times subsequent backcross with C57BL/6 was conducted to minimize the off-target effects. For PCR genotyping of PAF KO following primer pairs and cycling conditions were used: primers: #F: 5’ - AGAATCGAGGTTCTCAAGCG-3’; #R: 5’-CCTTCTAGCTGCTCAATGGG-3’, PCR conditions: 10 min at 95°C, followed by 40 cycles o f 95°C for 15 sec, 65°C for 15 sec, 72°C for 30 sec and post-elongation at 72°C for 5 m in. PAF WT makes 280 bp, and PAF KO makes 155bp (125bp deletion) of PCR product.

Radiation Injury
For intestinal damage, 8-10 weeks old mice were treated with γ-irradiation (10 or 12 Gy) using irradiator (Nasatron). The intestinal regeneration was assessed at 4 and 7 dpi.

Gene Expression Analysis
For small-scale screening of DNA repair gene expression in mice, mRNAs from the irradiated mouse small intestines (1 dpi, 10 Gy) were analyzed with RT2 Profiler™ PCR Array Mouse DNA Repair (Qiagen). Control and experimental mice were used for analysis (N=3, each). RNA was extracted from the mouse small intestine and organoids using the TRIzol (Invitrogen) as the manufacturer’s instructions. iScript cDNA synthesis kit (Biorad) with 1 μg of RNA was used for cDNA synthesis. For gene expression analysis of Lgr5+ cells, sorted 100-500 Lgr5+ cells were collected from Lgr5EGFP or PAF KO;Lgr5-EGFP mice in normal and IR-treated conditions. cDNA was synthesized using REPLI-g WTA Single Cell Kit (Qiagen #150063). The quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed using a 7500 real-time PCR machine (Applied Biosystems) with specific primers listed in Table S3. Target gene expression was normalized by Hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1 (HPRT1) or 18s rRNA. Comparative 2-ΔΔCt methods were used for quantification of qRT-PCR results.

Crypt Organoid Culture
Crypt organoid culture and Apc-mutated organoid culture were performed based on the previous studies (Sato et al., 2011b; Sato et al., 2009). Briefly, the small intestine samples were opened longitudinally and washed with PBS several times. For extracting the crypt, the small intestine was incubated with 5mM EDTA/PBS for 30 min and the crypt-rich supernatant was collected after vigorous shaking. After filtering through the 100 strainers, the same number (300~500) of crypts were seeded in 50 μl Matrigel (BD). 500 μl of ENR medium (Advanced DMEM/F12 media supplement with EGF (20 ng/ml, Peprotech), Noggin (100 ng/ml, Peprotech) and R-spondin1 (500 ng/ml, Peprotech) were added every two days. For single cell organoid culture, crypts fractions collected through the 70 μm (BD) cell strainer was incubated with Accumax (Stem cell technology 07921) and DNAse (0.8 mg/ml, Sigma) for 30 min. Passaging though the 40 μm strainer, ~5000 Lgr5high and Cytox Blue (Life technologies) negative cells were collected by cell sorting (MoFlo, Beckman Coulter) and seeded in Matrigel. ENR medium with Jagged-1 peptide (1 μM, AnaSpec) was supplied every 2 days. Organoid efficiency was calculated by counting viable crypts or Lgr5+ cells (at day 3) in total crypts (300~500 per well, crypt organoid) or total seeded cells (N=~2000 per well, single cell organoid). For ApcMin/+ organoids, adenomas were collected and suspended with Advanced DMEM/F12 media supplement with EGF (20 ng/ml) and Noggin (100 ng/ml). Fresh media were supplemented every 3 days until the next passage (10-14 days). Cystic organoid efficiency was calculated by counting viable cells (at day 3) in total suspended cells (Single cell organoid). The size of organoids was analyzed by measuring the area of the middle section of organoids under the microscope using AxioVision software (Zeiss) (at least 30 organoids per group for all experiments).

Organoid Retrovirus Infection
For organoid gene transduction, we utilized the modified method based on the previous reference (Onuma et al., 2013). FACS sorted Lgr5high single cells (~5000) from PAF WT and PAF KO mice were incubated with media containing retroviruses expressing c-Myc with RFP (MSCV-c-Myc-IRES-RFP, Addgene [#35395]), or wild-type PAF and mutPIP-PAF (Jung et al., 2013) for 6h at 37 °C with polybr ene (7 μg/ml) and Jagged-1 peptide (1 μM, AnaSpec). Then, infected cells were seeded on 50 μL Matrigel/well in a 12-well plate with conventional ENR media. RFP+ cells were able to observe 2 days after infection. Only RFP+ cells were considered as transfected cells. For selecting nt-PAF or mutPIP-PAF infected organoids, blasticidin (10 μg/ml) was treated.

Lgr5 mRNA Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH)
WT or PAF KO intestinal tissue sections (0 and 7 dpi) were processed for Lgr5 mRNA FISH according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen, FISH TagTM RNA Green Kit, with Alexa Fluor® 488 dye). Probe was designed as 530 base pair length targeting the coding sequence of Lgr5. A probe for sense strand was used as a negative control.

Mammalian Cell Culture and Sphere Formation Assay
CRC Cell line (HT29) was maintained in DMEM media containing 10% fetal bovine serum. For gene depletion, lentiviruses encoding short hairpins against PAF mRNA (MISSION shRNA, Sigma) were stably transduced into target cells and selected using puromycin (2 μg/ml). For counting the CSC population, trypsinized each cell line was counted and incubated with antibodies: CD44v6-APC (1:100, BD-Pharmingen [G44-26]) and CD133-FITC (1: 200, Miltenyi Biotec). Dead cells were excluded by Cytox Blue staining. FACS analysis was performed using FacsJazz Cell Sorter (BD). For sphere formation assay, the limited number of HT-29 cells (5000 cells per ml) were plated in triplicate in the ultra-low attachment plates and grown for six days in serum-free stem cell medium (SCM) supplemented with B27 (Invitrogen), EGF (20 ng/ml, Invitrogen), and bFGF (10 ng/ml, Invitrogen). The number and size of spheres were quantified using AxioVision software (Zeiss).

Chromatin Immunoprecipitation Assay
The mouse small intestines (the duodenum) were minced and cross-linked with 1% formaldehyde for 15 min at room temperature. After quenching by glycine, samples were incubated with lysis buffer (0.5% NP40, HEPES 25 mM, KCl 150 mM, MgCl2 1.5 mM, 10% glycerol and KOH pH 7.5) containing proteinase inhibitors. Then the nuclear fractions were collected after centrifugation. Cell lysates were subjected to sonication (10 times, 30s on and 30s off, Bioruptor 300 [Diagenode]) with ChIP-lysis buffer (Tris 50 mM pH 8.0, NaCl 150 mM, 0.1% SDS, 0.5% deoxycholate, 1% NP40 and EDTA 1 mM). Supernatant from lysates was used for immunoprecipitation with the primary antibodies. The following antibodies were used for ChIP: RNA Polymerase II (1μg/ml, EMD Millipore [CTD4H8]), mouse-anti PAF (1 μg/ml, Abcam [ab56773]), and normal mouse IgG (1 μg/ml, Invitrogen). ChIP amplicons were detected by ChIP-PCR using the primers listed in STAR Methods.

RNA-sequencing
The total RNA from ApcMin/+ and PAF KO;ApcMin/+ adenomas (two biological replicas) were used for RNA-seq. The transcriptome sequencing was performed by BGI (www.bgi.com/global/) with BGISEQ-500. Reads are mapped by Tophat2 and Differential genes are defined by Cuffdiff with P<0.05. KEGG analysis was performed by DAVID functional annotation analysis. GSEA analysis is performed with normalized FPKM of all genes with default parameters (Number of permutations =1000, collapse dataset=true, permutation type=phenotype).
All oligonucleotide sequences are listed in Supplementary Table 3.
Xenopus laevis was purchased from Kato-S Kagaku and handled according to the animal care regulations at the University of Tokyo. Preparation of interphase egg extracts, chromatin isolations, immunodepletions, and UbVS reactions was performed as described previously23 with minor modifications. Briefly, all extracts were supplemented with energy regeneration mix (2 mM ATP, 20 mM phosphocreatine, and 5 μg/ml creatine kinase). Demembranated sperm nuclei (3000–4000 sperm/μl in the final reaction) were added to egg extracts and incubated at 22 °C. For chromatin spin-down from the egg extracts, sperm nuclei were incubated in 15–25 μl of the extract preparation. The extracts were diluted with ten volumes of ice-cold chromatin purification buffer (CPB; 50 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 20 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.7) containing 2% sucrose, 0.1% NP-40, and 2 mM N-ethylenemaleimide (NEM) and kept on ice for 5 min. Diluted extracts were underlayed with 1.5 ml of a 30% sucrose cushion in CPB and centrifuged at 15,000 × g for 10 min at 4 °C using a swing–bucket rotor. The pellets were resuspended in Laemmli sample buffer. For xPAF15 depletion, 250 μl of antiserum were coupled to 50 μl of recombinant protein A-sepharose (rPAS, GE Healthcare). Antibody beads were washed three times in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and added with 5 μl fresh rPAS. Beads were washed twice in CPB, split into three portions, and 100 μl extracts were depleted in three rounds at 4 °C, each for 1 h. For xUHRF1 depletion, 170 μl of antiserum were coupled to 35 μl of rPAS. Antibody beads were washed three times in PBS and added with 4 μl fresh rPAS. Beads were washed twice in CPB, split into two portions, and 100 μl extracts were depleted in two rounds at 4 °C, each for 1 h. For xDNMT1 depletion, 250 μl of antiserum were coupled to 50 μl of rPAS. Antibody beads were washed three times in PBS and added with 5 μl fresh rPAS. Beads were washed twice in CPB, split into three portions, and 100 μl extracts were depleted in three rounds at 4 °C, each for 1 h. For add-back experiments, recombinant xPAF15 was added to xPAF15-depleted extracts at 320 nM, recombinant xUHRF1 was added to xUHRF1-depleted extracts at 110 nM, and recombinant xDNMT1 was added to xDNMT1-depleted extracts at 85 nM.

For UbVS reactions, egg extracts were incubated with 20 μM UbVS (Boston Biochem, Cambridge, MA, USA) for 30 min at 22 °C. Sperm nuclei were then added to egg extracts with or without 58 μM ubiquitin (Boston Biochem). For quantification of PAF15Ub2 on chromatin, immunoblot films from three independent experiments were scanned. The pixel intensity of protein bands was then quantified with Image J, and the average intensity normalized to UHRF1 was calculated for each set of conditions. Antibodies against xPAF15 were raised in rabbits by immunization with a GST-tagged recombinant full-length xPAF15. Antisera were further affinity-purified with the recombinant protein immobilized on a nitrocellulose membrane (1:500 dilution for western blots). Rabbit polyclonal antibodies raised against Xenopus DNMT1 and UHRF1 have been previously described17 (1:500 dilution for western blots). Rabbit polyclonal USP7 antibody A300-033A was purchased from Bethyl Laboratories (1:1000 dilution for western blots). Mouse monoclonal antibody against PCNA PC-10 was purchased from Santa Crutz Biotechnology and used for immunoblotting (1:1000 dilution for western blots). Rabbit polyclonal histone H3 antibody ab1791 was purchased from Abcam (1:3000 dilution for western blots). The following antibodies were generous gifts: xPCNA antibody used for IPs (TS. Takahashi, Kyusyu Univ.), xORC2 (J. Maller, University of Colorado, 1:1000 dilution for western blots), and xCdt1 (Marcel Mechali, CNRS, 1/2000 dilution for western blots). For IP, 10 μl of Protein A agarose (GE Healthcare) was coupled with 2 μg of purified antibodies or 5 μl of antiserum. The agarose beads were washed twice with CPB buffer containing 2% sucrose. The antibody beads were incubated with egg extracts for 1 h at 4 °C. The beads were washed four times with CPB buffer containing 2% sucrose and 0.1% Triton X-100 and resuspended in 20 μl of 2× Laemmli sample buffer.
MNase-digested chromatin fractions were prepared as described previously23,35. Briefly, the chromatin pellet was resuspended and digested in 100 μl of digestion buffer (10 mM HEPES-KOH, 50 mM KCl, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 0.1 mM CaCl2, 0.1% Triton X-100, pH 7.5, and 10 μM PR-619) containing 4 U/ml micrococcal nuclease (MNase) at 22 °C for 20 min. The reaction was stopped by the addition of 10 mM EDTA, and the mixture was centrifuged at 17,700 × g for 10 min. To prepare denatured chromatin lysates, the supernatant was treated with 1% SDS and then immediately diluted with lysis buffer (150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM EDTA, 15 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0). For the pull-down experiment, 5 μg purified recombinant xDNMT1 or its mutant were coupled with 20 μl of anti-FLAG M2 affinity resin at 4 °C for 1 h. The beads were collected and washed with CPB buffer containing 2% sucrose and then incubated with MNase-digested chromatin. After incubation at 4 °C for 1 h, beads were washed with CPB buffer containing 0.1% Triton X-100. Bound proteins were analyzed by immunoblotting.
Liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analyses were performed essentially as previously described50 with some modifications. Immunoprecipitated proteins were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and stained with Bio-Safe Coomassie (Bio-Rad). Gels were washed in Milli-Q water, and excised. The gel pieces were washed in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate (AMBC)/30% acetonitrile (ACN) for >2 h, and subsequently with 50 mM AMBC/50% ACN for >1 h. The gels were then dehydrated in 100% ACN for 15 min. Trypsin digestion was performed by incubation at 37 °C for 12–15 h with 20 ng/μl modified sequence-grade trypsin (Promega) in 50 mM AMBC and 5% ACN, pH 8.0. After digestion, the peptides were extracted four times with 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid/70% ACN. Extracted peptides were concentrated by vacuum centrifugation. For the LC-MS/MS analyses, a Nanoflow UHPLC, Easy nLC 1000 (Thermo Fisher Scientific) was connected online to a quadrupole-equipped Orbitrap MS instrument (Q Exactive, Thermo Fisher Scientific) with a nanoelectrospray ion source (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Peptides were separated on C18 analytical columns (Reprosil-Pur 3 μm, 75 μm id × 12 cm packed tip column, Nikyo Technos Co., Ltd.) in a 90-min three-step gradient (0–40% Solvent B for 72 min, 40–100% for 12 min, and 100% for 6 min) at a constant flow rate of 300 nl/min. The Q Exactive was operated using the Xcalibur software (Thermo Fisher Scientific) in data-dependent MS/MS mode, and the top 10 most intense ions with a charge state of +2 to +5 were selected with an isolation window of 2.0 m/z and fragmented by higher-energy collisional dissociation with a normalized collision energy of 28. Resolution and automatic gain control targets were set to 70,000 and 3E6, respectively. The data were analyzed using the Sequest HT search program in Proteome Discoverer 2.2 (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The maximum of missed cleavage sites of trypsin was set to three. Acetylation (Protein N-term and Lys), oxidation (Met), GlyGly modification (Lys), phosphorylation (Ser, Thr, Tyr), and pyroglutamate conversion (N-term Gln) were selected as variable modifications. Peptide identification was filtered at a false discovery rate <0.01. Non-label protein quantification was performed using the Precursor Ions Quantifier node in Proteome Discoverer 2.2. The RAW files have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium51,52.
The X. laevis Paf15 cDNA was amplified by PCR from a X. laevis cDNA library using primers 3621 and 3622 and ligated into pTA2 vector. For GST-xPAF15 expression, the amplified xPaf15 genes with primers 3667 and 3636 were gel-isolated and ligated into linearized pGEX4T-3 using In-Fusion (Clontech) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Protein expression in Escherichia coli (BL21-CodonPlus) was induced by the addition of 0.1 mM isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside to media followed by incubation for 12 h at 20 °C. For purification of GST-tagged proteins, cells were collected and resuspended in lysis buffer (20 mM HEPES-KOH pH 7.6, 0.5 M NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT)) supplemented with 0.5% NP40 and protease inhibitors and were then disrupted by sonication on ice. After centrifugation, the supernatant was applied to glutathione Sepharose beads (GE Healthcare) and rotated at 4 °C for 2 h. Beads were then washed three times with wash buffer 1 (20 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1% TritionX-100, 1 mM DTT) and once with wash buffer 2 (100 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 100 mM NaCl). Bound proteins were released in elution buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, 1 mM DTT) containing 42 mM reduced glutathione, and the purified protein was loaded on a PD10 desalting column equilibrated with EB buffer (10 mM HEPES/KOH at pH 7.7, 100 mM KCl, 0.1 mM CaCl2, 1 mM MgCl2) containing 1 mM DTT and then concentrated with Vivaspin (Millipore).

For protein expression in insect cells, C-terminally 3× Flag-tagged xPaf15 genes were transferred from pKS104 vector into pVL1392 vector. The amplified xPaf15 genes with primers 3720 and 3581 were gel-isolated and ligated into linearized pVL1392 using In-Fusion. R3A, T4D, K5A, K18R, K27R, K18R/K27R, and F72AF73A mutations in pKS104-xPAF15 or pVL1392-xPAF15 constructs were introduced using a KOD-Plus Mutagenesis Kit (Toyobo). All mutations were confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Baculoviruses were produced using a BD BaculoGold Transfection Kit and a BestBac Transfection Kit (BD Biosciences), following the manufacturer’s protocol. Proteins were expressed in Sf9 insect cells by infection with viruses expressing xPAF15 WT-3× Flag or its mutant for 72 h. Sf9 cells from a 500 ml culture were collected and lysed by resuspending them in 20 ml lysis buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 1% Nonidet P40 (NP-40), 1 mM DTT, 10 μg/ml leupeptin, and 10 μg/ml aprotinin), followed by incubation on ice for 10 min. A soluble fraction was obtained after centrifugation of the lysate at 15,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C. The soluble fraction was incubated for 4 h at 4 °C with 250 μl of anti-FLAG M2 affinity resin (Sigma-Aldrich) equilibrated with lysis buffer. The beads were collected and washed with 10 ml wash buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40, 1 mM DTT) and then with 5 ml EB (20 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 100 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2) containing 1 mM DTT. The recombinant xPAF15 was eluted twice in 250 μl EB containing 1 mM DTT and 250 μg/ml 3× FLAG peptide (Sigma-Aldrich). Eluates were pooled and concentrated using a Vivaspin 500 (GE Healthcare Biosciences). We note that all PAF15 mutant proteins was purified as efficiently as the WT protein from insect cells. For expression of C-terminally 3× Flag-tagged xUHRF1 (Wt and D333A/D336A), C-terminally 3× Flag-tagged xUhrf1 genes were transferred from pKS104 vector into pVL1392 vector. The amplified xUHRF1 genes with primers 4620 and 3581 were gel-isolated and ligated into linearized pVL1392 using In-Fusion. The D333A/D336A substitution was introduced using a KOD-Plus Mutagenesis Kit and confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Recombinant xUHRF1 proteins were also purified as described above.
DNA methylation was monitored by the incorporation of S-[methyl-3H]-adenosyl-L-methionine, incubated at room temperature, and the reaction was stopped by the addition of CPB containing 2% sucrose up to 300 μl. Genomic DNA was purified using a Wizard Genomic DNA Purification Kit (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Incorporation of radioactivity was quantified with a liquid scintillation counter. DNA replication was assayed by adding [α-32P]-dCTP to egg extracts containing sperm chromatin. The reaction was stopped by adding 1% SDS, 40 mM EDTA and spotted onto Whatman glass microfiber filters followed by trichloroacetic acid (TCA) precipitation with 5% TCA containing 2% pyrophosphate. Filters were washed in ethanol, dried, and TCA-precipitated radioactivity was counted in scintillation liquid.
The PHD finger of human UHRF1 (residues 299–366) was expressed as a fusion protein with GST and small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 (SUMO-1) at its N-terminus. Cell culture and purification were performed according to our previous report14,23. Briefly, hPHD was purified using GST affinity column of glutathione Sepharose 4B (GS4B: GE Healthcare). The GST-SUMO-1 fused hPHD was eluted with reduced glutathione and then GST-SUMO-1 tag was removed by the SUMO-specific protease GST-SENP2. The protein was further purified by anion-exchange chromatography using a HiTrap Q HP column and by SEC using a HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column (GE Healthcare). PAF152-11 was synthesized at Toray Research Center (Tokyo, Japan). The PHD finger:PAF152-11 complex was prepared by adding a 1.5-molar excess of the PAF152-11 peptide to the protein before its concentration using an Amicon concentrator with a 3000 Da cutoff (Millipore). The crystal was obtained using a 30 mg/ml concentration of the complex at 20 °C and the hanging drop vapor diffusion method with a reservoir solution containing 0.1 M HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5) and 70% (v/v) 2-methyl-2,4-pentanediol. The crystal was directly frozen in liquid nitrogen. The X-ray diffraction data were collected at a wavelength of 0.98000 Å on a Pilatus3 6M detector in beam line BL-17A at Photon Factory (Tsukuba, Japan) and scaled at 1.70 Å resolution with the program XDS package53 and Aimless54. This was followed by molecular replacement by PHASER55 and several cycles of model refinement by PHENIX56. The final model converged at 1.70 Å resolution with a crystallographic R-factor of 17.6% and a free R-factor of 18.7%. The crystallographic data and refinement statistics are given in Table 1. The figures were generated using PyMOL (http://www.pymol.org).
Preparation and purification of the disulfide linked K15 and K24 mono-ubiquitylated analog of human PAF152-30 and the human DNMT1 RFTS domain, residues 351–600, were performed according to our previous report23. hRFTS was purified using GST-affinity column of GS4B. After removing the GST-SUMO1 tag by GST-SENP2, the protein was further purified by anion-exchange chromatography of HiTrap Q HP column and HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column. hPAF152-30 K15C/K24C mutant was synthesized at Toray Research Center (Tokyo, Japan). Ubiquitin G76C mutant activated by 5,5′-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (Wako) and hPAF152-30 K15C/K24C were incubated for 1 h at room temperature and then purified by cation-exchange chromatography of Mono-S (GE Healthcare) to separate from the by-products. The UHRF1 PHD finger was buffer-exchanged using Superdex 200 Increase 10/300 GL (GE Healthcare) equilibrated with 10 mM HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.25 mM tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride and lyophilized PAF15 (residues 2–11) peptide was dissolved in the same buffer. hRFTS and PAF152-30Ub2 were equilibrated with 10 mM HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, and 10 μM zinc acetate. A MicroCal LLC calorimeter, VP-ITC (MicroCal), was used for the ITC measurements. The data were analyzed with the software ORIGIN (MicroCal) using a one-site model.
Protein expression in E. coli and purification of mouse UBA1 (E1), human UHRF1 (WT and its mutants), and ubiquitin were performed according to the previous reports17. E1 enzyme was expressed in E. coli Rosetta 2 (DE3) (Novagen) as a six histidine-tag fusion protein. The protein was purified using TALON® (Clontech), HiTrap Q HP, and SEC using HiLoad 26/60 Superdex200 column (GE Healthcare). hUHRF1 WT and mutants, D334A/D337A and H741A, were expressed in E. coli Rosetta 2 (DE3) as a GST-fusion protein. The protein was purified GST-affinity chromatography of GS4B column. After removal of GST-tag by HRV-3C protease, the protein was further purified by HiTrap Heaparin HP column (GE Healthcare) and HiLoad 26/60 Superdex200 column. Purification procedure of ubiquitin was as follows: after cell lysis and centrifugation, the supernatant was boiled at 85 °C for 15 min. After removing the debris by centrifugation, ubiquitin was further purified using cation-exchange chromatography of HiTrap SP HP (GE Healthcare) and HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column. UBCh5 (E2) was purified using TALON® and SEC of HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column. The cDNA encoding amino acids 2–71 of human PAF15 harboring HA-tag at the C-terminus was cloned into the modified pET21b vector, pET-Npro vector57. The Npro-fused PAF15 was purified from the pellet fraction. The inclusion body was then solubilized in buffer containing 8 M urea, 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), and 25 mM DTT by stirring overnight at 4 °C. Then the denatured fusion proteins were purified by Ni Sepharose 6 Fast Flow (GE Healthcare). The eluents were dialyzed in a step-wise manner to gradually remove the urea. The solution was additionally incubated with a buffer containing 100 mM Tris-HCl (pH7.5), 200 mM NaCl, and 2 mM DTT for 12–24 h at room temperature for completing autocleavage of Npro. The protein was further purified using HiTrap SP HP and HiLoad 16/60 Superdex 30 (GE Healthcare).

Standard ubiquitylation reaction mixtures contained 116 μM ubiquitin, 200 nM E1, 6 μM E2, 3 μM E3, 5 mM ATP, and 50 μM PAF15-HA as a substrate in ubiquitylation reaction buffer (50 mM HEPES [pH 8.0], 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.1% Triton X-100, 2 mM DTT). The mixture was incubated at 30 °C for 30 min, and the reaction was stopped by adding 3× SDS loading buffer. The reaction was analyzed by SDS-PAGE, followed by western blotting using 1/20,000 diluted anti-HA antibody (MBL, #M180-3).
SAXS data were collected on Photon Factory BL-10C using a UPLC® ACQUITY (Waters) integrated SAXS set-up. Fifty μl of a 6 mg/ml sample were loaded onto a Superdex 200 Increase 5/150 GL (GE Healthcare Science) pre-equilibrated with 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, and 5% glycerol at a flow rate of 0.25 ml/min at 4 °C. The flow rate was reduced to 0.025 ml/min at an elution volume of 1.63–2.30 ml. X-ray scattering was collected every 20 s on a PILATUS3 2 M detector over an angular range of qmin = 0.00690 Å−1 to qmax = 0.27815 Å−1. UV spectra at a range of 200–450 nm were recorded every 10 s. Circular averaging and buffer subtraction were carried out using the program SAngler58 to obtain one-dimensional scattering data I(q) as a function of q (q = 4πsinθ/λ, where 2θ is the scattering angle and λ is the X-ray wavelength 1.5 Å). The scattering intensity was normalized on an absolute scale using the scattering intensity of water59. The multiple concentrations of the scattering data around the peak at A280 and I(0) were extrapolated to zero-concentration using a Serial Analyzer60. The molecular weights of samples were calculated from the I(q) data of Ovalbumin (Sigma) at the highest values of A280 and I(0). The radius of gyration Rg and the forward scattering intensity I(0) were estimated from the Guinier plot of I(q) in the smaller angle region of qRg < 1.3. The distance distribution function P(r) of the sample at the highest peak of A280 and I(0) was calculated using the program GNOM61, where the experimental I(q) data were used in a q-range of 0.00885–0.17670 Å−1. The maximum particle dimension Dmax was estimated from the P(r) function as the distance r for which P(r) = 0. The molecular weight of the sample was estimated by comparing the I(0)/c (where c is the protein concentration) of the sample to that of Ovalbumin.
The mESC line J1 was originally provided by the laboratory of Dr. Rudolf Jaenisch (Whitehead Institute). Dnmt1 KO mESCs were described in ref. 62 and Uhrf1 KO mESCs were described in ref. 36. All mESC lines were maintained on 0.2% gelatin-coated dishes in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (Sigma) supplemented with 16% fetal bovine serum (FBS, Sigma), 0.1 mM ß-mercaptoethanol (Invitrogen), 2 mM L-glutamine (Sigma), 1× Minimum Essential Medium non-essential amino acids (Sigma), 100 U/ml penicillin, 100 mg/ml streptomycin (Sigma), recombinant LIF (ESGRO, Millipore), and 2i (1 mM PD032591 and 3 mM CHIR99021 (Axon Medchem, Netherlands)). Baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells containing a stably integrated lac operator (lacO) array used for the F3H assay were kindly provided by the laboratory of Dr. David L. Spector63. BHK cells were grown in a humidified atmosphere at 37 °C and 5% CO2 in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium supplemented with 1 mM Gentamycin (Serva GmbH) and 10% FBS (Sigma). All cell lines were regularly tested for mycoplasma contamination.
For generation of Paf15 K15R and K24R mutant mESCs, specific gRNAs for each mutation were cloned into a modified version of the SpCas9-T2A-Puromycin/gRNA vector (px459;64 Addgene plasmid #62988), in which SpCas9 is fused to truncated human Geminin (hGem) to preferentially generate double-strand breaks when homology-directed repair is active65. To generate targeting donors for each desired mutation, single-stranded oligonucleotides harboring either the K15R or K24R substitution and ~100 bp homologous to the respective genomic locus were synthesized (IDT, Coralville, IA, USA). Cells were transfected with a 4:1 ratio of donor oligo and Cas9/gRNA construct. RNA vector was obtained via cut-ligation. Two days after transfection, cells were plated at clonal density and subjected to a transient puromycin selection (1 mg/ml) for 40 h. Colonies were picked out 6 days after transfection. Cell lysis in 96-well plates, PCRs of lysates, and restriction digestion were performed as previously described62. Successful insertion of Paf15 K15R and K24R mutations was confirmed by Sanger sequencing. For generation of the Paf15 K15R/K24R double-mutant ESC lines, three characterized Paf15 K24R single mutants were subjected to a second round of gene editing to achieve the K15R substitution as described above.
Total RNA was isolated using a NucleoSpin Triprep Kit (Macherey-Nagel) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. cDNA synthesis was performed with a High-Capacity cDNA Reverse Transcription Kit (with RNase Inhibitor; Applied Biosystems) using 2 µg of total RNA as input. qRT-PCR assays with the oligonucleotides listed in Supplementary Table 3 were performed in 8 µl reaction volumes with 5 ng of cDNA used as input. For SYBR green detection, FastStart Universal SYBR Green Master Mix (Roche) was used. The reactions were run on a LightCycler480 (Roche).
For co-IP of DNMT1, 1.5 × 107 of mESCs were lysed in 250 µl of lysis buffer (10 mM Tris/Cl pH7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 0.5% NP40, 1.5 mM MgCl2, 0.5 µg/ml Benzonase (Sigma-Aldrich), 1 mM PMSF, 1× mammalian Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (e.g., Serva®), 5 mM NEM (Sigma)) at 4 °C for 30 min. Lysates were cleared by centrifugation at 20,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C, and the protein concentration was measured using Pierce™ 660 nm Protein Assay Reagent according to the manufacturer’s instructions. For DNMT1 IP, we used an anti-DNMT1 nanobody (commercial name: DNMT1-Trap, ChromoTek), which is an antigen-binding domain (VHH) derived from the heavy chain of an alpaca antibody raised against DNMT1. Equal amounts of protein extracts were incubated with 25 µl of DNMT1-Trap (undiluted) for 2 h at 4 °C under constant rotation. Beads were washed three times with washing buffer (10 mM Tris/Cl pH7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA) and boiled in Laemmli buffer at 95 °C for 10 min. Bound fractions were separated and visualized as a western blot.

To isolate cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions, 2 × 107 of mESCs were treated with 400 µl of hypotonic buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl pH 8, 10 mM KCl, 1.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 1× Protease Inhibitor, 2 mM PMSF, 5 mM NEM, and 0.1% Triton X-100) at 4 °C for 5 min. The cytoplasmic fraction was separated from nuclei by centrifugation at 1300 × g for 10 min at 4 °C, then supplemented with 150 mM NaCl and clarified by centrifugation at 20,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C. Nuclei were lysed as described above. Anti-mPAF15 antibody (Santa Cruz, sc-390515, 2 µg) was added to the cytoplasmic and nuclear lysate and incubated for 2 h at 4 °C under constant rotation. To precipitate mPAF15-bound proteins, 20 µl of protein G beads (GE17-0618-06) were added to the lysate for an overnight incubation at 4 °C under constant rotation.

Western blots for mDNMT1 were performed as described previously18 using a monoclonal antibody (rat anti-DNMT1, 14F6, 1:10 dilution) and a polyclonal antibody (rabbit anti-DNMT1, Abcam, ab87654, 1:2500 dilution). Other antibodies used for detection were mouse anti-PAF15 antibody (Santa Cruz, sc-390515, 1:1500 dilution), polyclonal rabbit-anti-H3 (Abcam, ab1791, 1:5000 dilution), and a monoclonal mouse-anti-tubulin (Sigma, T9026, 1:2000 dilution). The following secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were used: goat polyclonal anti-rat IgG (Dianova, 112-035-003, 1:5000), goat polyclonal anti-rabbit IgG (Bio-rad), and rabbit polyclonal anti-mouse IgG (Sigma, A9044, 1:5000). For detection of horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibodies, an ECL Plus reagent (GE Healthcare, Thermo Scientific) was used.
For RRBS, genomic DNA was isolated using a QIAamp DNA Mini Kit (QIAGEN), after an overnight lysis and proteinase K treatment. Preparation of the RRBS library was carried out as described previously66, with the following modifications: bisulfite treatment was performed using an EZ DNA Methylation-Gold™ Kit (Zymo Research Corporation) according to the manufacturer’s protocol except that libraries were eluted in 2× 20 mL M-elution buffer. RRBS libraries were sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq 1500 in 50 bp paired-end mode.
Raw RRBS reads were first trimmed using Trim Galore (v.0.3.1) with the “--rrbs” parameter. Alignments were carried out with the mouse genome (mm10) using bsmap (v.2.90) and the parameters “-s 12 -v 10 -r 2 -I 1.” CpG-methylation calls were extracted from the mapping output using bsmaps methratio.py. Analysis was restricted to CpG with a coverage >10. A methylKit67 was used to identify differentially methylated regions between the respective contrasts for the following genomic features: (1) repeats (defined by Repbase), (2) gene promoters (defined as gene start sites −2 kb/+2 kb), and (3) gene bodies (defined as the longest isoform per gene) and CpG islands (as defined by ref. 68). Differentially methylated regions were identified as regions with p < 0.05 and a difference in methylation means between two groups >25%.
Chromatin IP–sequencing reads for H3K9me238, H3K9me339 and H3K14ac40 in ESCs and EpiLCs were downloaded from GSE6020467, GSE2394368, and GSE3128469, respectively. Reads were aligned to the mouse genome (mm10) with Bowtie (v.1.2.2) with parameters “-a -m 3 -n 3 -best -strata.” Peak calling and signal pile-up was performed using MACS2 callpeak69 with the parameters “-extsize 150‘-nomodel -B -nolambda” for all samples. Tag densities for 1 kb Tiles detected in RBBS were calculated using custom R scripts. Replication domain data for mouse ESCs (mm10) for replication timing analysis was taken from http://www.replicationdomain.org/69. The average replication timing ratio was calculated over 1 kb Tiles detected in RBBS using custom R scripts. Data of partially methylated domains and highly methylated domains (mm10) was downloaded from https://zwdzwd.github.io/pmd42 and used to calculate average DNA methylation levels (RRBS) over these regions.
ESCs were grown in 96-well microplates (μClear, Greiner Bio-One), washed with PBS, and fixed with 3.7% formaldehyde. After three washing steps with PBST, cells were permeabilized (0.5 % Triton-X100), treated with denaturing solution (2 N HCl) for 40 min, and incubated with renaturing solution (150 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.5) for 20 min. Cells were then blocked in 2% bovine serum albumin for 1 h and incubated with primary antibody (mouse-anti 5mC, Diagenode 33D3) for 1 h at 37 °C. After washing three times with PBST, cells were incubated with secondary antibody (goat-anti-mouse coupled to Alexa647, Thermo Fisher) for 1 h at 37 °C. Cells were washed three times with PBST, counterstained with 200 ng/ml 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), and finally covered with PBS. Images were acquired by automation with an Operetta High-Content Image Analysis System (PerkinElmer, ×40 high NA objective) followed by analysis with the Harmony software (PerkinElmer). DAPI was used for the detection of single nuclei and 5mC modifications were measured in selected nuclei based on the antibody signal intensity.
The F3H assay was performed as described previously37. In brief, BHK cells containing multiple lac operator repeats were transiently transfected on coverslips using polyethyleneimine and fixed with 3.7% formaldehyde 24 h after transfection. For DNA counterstaining, coverslips were incubated in a solution of DAPI (200 ng/ml) in PBST and mounted in Vectashield. Cell images were collected using a Leica TCS SP5 confocal microscope. To quantify the interactions within the lac spot, the following intensity ratio was calculated for each cell: (mCherryspot − mCherrybackground)/(GFPspot − GFPbackground) in order to account for different expression levels. The following constructs used in the F3H assay have been described previously: pCAG-eGFP-IB70, pCAG-eGFP-mDNMT170, and pGBP-LacI37. To generate the mCherry-mPAF15 WT and KRKR expression constructs, the coding sequences of mPAF15 WT and KRKR were excised via AsiSI and NotI restriction digest from the GFP-PAF15 WT and KRKR constructs36 and ligated into the pCAG‐Cherry‐IB vector70.
Human clinical studies were approved by the Ethics Committee of the University of California, Irvine. All human studies were performed in strict adherence to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) guidelines of the University of California, Irvine (2009-7083). We have obtained informed consent from all participants.
Frozen tissue sections (10 μm) were fixed with 4% PFA in PBS for 15 min. Following fixation, tissue sections were stained with Hematoxylin and Eosin following standard procedures. Sections were stained with Gill’s III (Fisher Scientific; 22050203) for 5 min and Eosin-Y (Fisher Scientific; 22050197) for 1 min. Tissue sections were visualized under a light microscope under 10x objective lens after mounting with Permount mounting media (Fisher Scientific; SP15-100). For immunostaining, tissue sections were fixed with 4% PFA in PBS for 15 min. 10% BSA in PBS was used for blocking. Following blocking, 5% BSA and 0.1% Triton X-100 in PBS was used for permeabilization. The following antibodies were used: chicken anti-KRT14 (1:500; BioLegend; SIG-3476), mouse anti-KRT10 (1:500; Dako; M7002), rabbit anti-KI67 (1:500; Abcam; ab15580), rabbit anti-PTTG1 (1:100; Sigma-Aldrich; HPA008890), mouse anti-ASS1 (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-365475), rabbit anti-COL17A1 (1:100; One World Labs; ap9099c), rabbit anti-COL7A1 (1:500; abcam; ab93350), mouse anti-COL7A1 (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-33710), rabbit anti-GJB2 (1:250; ThermoFisher; 51-2800), rabbit anti-KRT19 (1:250; Cell signaling; 13092), mouse anti-SPINK5 (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-137109), mouse anti-CALML5 (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-393637), mouse anti-CDC20 (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-13162), mouse anti-RRM2 (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-398294, sc-376973), mouse anti-PCLAF (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-390515), mouse anti-MLANA (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-20032), and mouse anti-CD74 (1:100; Santa Cruz; sc-6262). Secondary antibodies included Alexa Fluor 488 (1:500; Jackson ImmunoResearch; 715-545-150, 711-545-152) and Cy3 AffiniPure (1:500; Jackson ImmunoResearch; 711-165-152, 111-165-003). Slides were mounted with Prolong Diamond Antifade Mountant containing DAPI (Molecular Probes;). Confocal images were acquired at room temperature on a Zeiss LSM700 laser scanning microscope with Plan-Apochromat 20x objective or 40x and 63x oil immersion objectives. Images were arranged with ImageJ, Affinity Photo, and Affinity Designer.
Cells were lysed with 2X SDS sample buffer (100 mM Tris HCl 6.8, 200 nM DTT, 4% SDS, 0.2% bromophenol blue, and 20% glycerol) and boiled at 100 °C for 10 min. Samples were resolved on a 12.5% polyacrylamide gel and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane by a wet transfer apparatus. Membranes were blocked with 5% milk in TBS with 0.05% Tween-20 before sequential addition of primary and secondary antibodies. Membranes were imaged using Alexa Fluor secondary antibodies and the LI-COR Odyssey imaging system. Secondary antibodies included Alexa Fluor 680 (1:2000; Jackson ImmunoResearch; 715-625-150, 711-625-152) and Alexa Fluor 790 (1:2000; Jackson ImmunoResearch; 711-655-152).
Either pSicoR or pGIPZ vectors were used for lentiviral knockdown of specific genes. pSicoR was a gift from Tyler Jacks (Addgene; 11579). For pSicoR, shRNA were designed using pSicoligomaker 3.0 (Ventura Lab) and cloned using InFusion HD Cloning Plus Kit (Takara, 638911). The following sequences were used: PTTG1 5′-GATGATGCCTATCCAGAAATTCAAGAGATTTCTGGATAGGCATCATC-3′; RRM2 5′-GCACTCTAATGAAGCAATATTCAAGAGATATTGCTTCATTAGAGTGC-3′. Lentiviral pGIPZ vectors contained shRNAs to UHRF1 (5′-TGACATTGCGCACCACCCT-3′) and HELLS (5′-ACAGGCTGATGTGTACTTAACC-3′)63 (Dharmacon). Transduced cells were selected via Puromycin (ThermoFisher; 50464455). Knockdown efficiency was determined by protein levels on Western Blot or by quantitative RT-PCR where fold change in mRNA expression was measured using ΔΔCT analysis with GAPDH as an internal control. The following qPCR primers were used: PTTG1 forward 5′-CCCTTGAGTGGAGTGCCTCT-3′, reverse 5′-CACAGCAAACAGGTGGCAAT-3′; RRM2 forward 5′-GCAGCAAGCGATGGCATAGT-3′, reverse 5′-GGGCTTCTGTAATCTGAACTTC-3′; PCNA forward 5′-CGACACCTACCGCTGCGACC-3′, reverse 5′-TAGCGCCAAGGTATCCGCGT-3′; and GAPDH forward 5′-GCACCGTCAAGGCTGAGAAC-3′, reverse 5′-TGGTGAAGACGCCAGTGGA-3′.
Cadaver human skin was acquired from the New York Firefighters Skin Bank (New York, New York, USA). Upon arrival at UC Irvine, the skin was allowed to thaw in a biosafety hood. Skin was then placed into PBS supplemented with 4X Pen/Strep, shaken vigorously for 5 min, and transferred to PBS supplemented with 4X Pen/Strep. This step was repeated two additional times. The skin was then placed into a 37 °C incubator for 2 weeks. The epidermis was removed from the dermis using using sterile watchmaker forceps. The dermis was washed 3 times in PBS supplemented with 4X Pen/Strep with vigorous shaking. The dermis was then stored in PBS supplemented with 4X Pen/Strep at 4 °C until needed.
Discarded and deidentified neonatal foreskins were collected during routine circumcision from UC Irvine Medical Center (Orange, CA, US). The samples were either processed for histological staining, scRNA-seq, or primary culture. No personal information was collected for this study. For primary cell isolation, fat from discarded and deidentified neonatal foreskins were removed using forceps and scissors and incubated with dispase epidermis side up for 2 h at 37 °C. The epidermis was peeled from the dermis, cut into fine pieces, and incubated in 0.25% Trypsin-EDTA for 15 min at 37 °C and quenched with chelated FBS. Cells were passed through a 40 µm filter, centrifuged at 1500 rpm for 5 min, and the pellet resuspended in Keratinocyte Serum Free Media supplemented with Epidermal Growth Factor 1-53 and Bovine Pituitary Extract (Life Technologies; 17005042). Cells were either live/dead sorted using SYTOX Blue Dead Cell Stain (ThermoFisher; S34857) for scRNA-seq or incubated at 37 °C for culture.
Following isolation, cells were resuspended in PBS free of Ca2+ and Mg2+ and 1% BSA and stained with SYTOX Blue Dead Cell Stain (ThermoFisher; S34857). Samples were bulk sorted at 4 °C on a BD FACSAria Fusion using a 100 µm nozzle (20 PSI) at a flow rate of 2.0 with a maximum threshold of 3000 events/s. Following exclusion of debris and singlet/doublet discrimination, cells were gated on viability for downstream scRNA-seq.
Primary human keratinocytes were cultured in Keratinocyte Serum Free Media supplemented with Epidermal Growth Factor 1-53 and Bovine Pituitary Extract (Life Technologies; 17005042). For generating organotypic skin cultures, ~500 K control or knockdown cells were seeded on devitalized human dermis and raised to an air/liquid interface in order to induce differentiation and stratification over the indicated number of days with culture changes every 2 days64.
Cell counting, suspension, GEM generation, barcoding, post GEM-RT cleanup, cDNA amplification, library preparation, quality control, and sequencing was performed at the Genomics High Throughput Sequencing Facility at the University of California, Irvine. Transcripts were mapped to the human reference genome (GRCh38) using Cell Ranger Version 2.1.0.
For downstream analyses, we kept cells which met the following filtering criteria per biological replicate per condition: >200 and <5000 genes/cell, and <10% mitochondrial gene expression. Genes that were expressed in less than 3 cells were excluded. Data were normalized with a scale factor of 10,000.
Seurat and SoptSC26 were implemented for analysis of scRNA-seq data in this study. Seurat was performed in R (version 2.2) and was applied to all the datasets in this study. To select highly variable genes (HVGs) for initial clustering of cells, we performed Principal Component Analysis on the scaled data for all genes included in the previous step. For clustering, we used the function FindClusters that implements Shared Nearest Neighbor modularity optimization-based clustering algorithm on 20 PC components with resolution 0.6. Nonlinear dimensionality reduction methods, namely tSNE and UMAP, were applied to the scaled matrix for visualization of cells in two-dimensional space using first 10 PC components. The marker genes for every cluster compared with all remaining cells were identified using the FindAllMarkers function. For each cluster, genes were selected such that they were expressed in at least 25% of cells with at least 0.25-fold difference.

SoptSC was performed in MATLAB (version 2017b). In order to make both methods comparable for data clustering and downstream analysis, we used Seurat for quality control and normalization and used the resulting data matrices as an input for SoptSC. SoptSC selected 3000 HVGs for the downstream analysis where the genes with highest loading in the first k principal components were selected (k is the index where the largest gap of the principal component variances occurs). A cell-to-cell similarity matrix preserving both local and global structure of the single-cell data was learned via SoptSC by solving an optimization problem. SoptSC then perform clustering, marker gene identification, lineage inference through a single mathematical framework. Visualization of single cell data in low-dimensional space was implemented by applying Elastic Embedding (EE), a nonlinear dimensionality reduction technique, to the cell-to-cell similarity matrix. The number of common marker genes between clusters among the top 500 marker genes for each cluster identified from two pipelines was compared with assess clustering correlations between Seurat and SoptSC.
Melanocytes and Langerhans cells were regressed out for lineage and pseudotime analysis. The resulting data post-melanocyte and Langerhans cell removal was reclustered using SoptSC, where the number of HVGs was set to 10,000. Pseudotime and lineage analysis were performed using SoptSC. Briefly, pseudotime was calculated as the shortest path distance between cells and root cell on the cell-to-cell graph constructed based on the similarity matrix. Root cell was identified by the user in SoptSC. Visualization of the cell trajectories was obtained from EE with similarity matrix taken as an input. Cell states were visualized using abstract lineage trees. Lineage trees are obtained by computing the minimum spanning tree of the cluster-to-cluster graph based on the shortest path distance between cells. Pseudotime was projected on the lineage tree such that the order of each state (cluster) was defined as the average distances between cells within the state and the root cell.

Diffusion pseudotime (DPT), which measures transitions between cells using diffusion-like random walks, was also used to infer pseudotime65. The matlab-version of DPT was used. We took gene expression matrices with overall 700 DEGs (top 100—DEGs for each cluster) identified from SoptSC as input for DPT. The root cell for DPT was selected from the BAS-I cluster.
RNA velocity was estimated based on the spliced and unspliced transcript reads from the single-cell data47. We followed the standard process of the velocyto pipeline to generate the spliced and unspliced matrices by applying velocyto.py to the data from the Cell Ranger output (outs) folder. We remove melanocytes and Langerhans cells for the velocity analysis and only epithelial cells included in pseudotime were used to calculate velocity vectors. RNA velocity was estimated using a gene-relative model with 25 nearest neighbors and then the velocity fields were projected onto the EE space produced by SoptSC. We set the parameter n sight as 2500, which defines the size of the neighborhood used for projecting velocity. We also applied the RNA velocity analysis for basal cells using the similar procedure where the parameter n was set as 500. Default settings were used for the rest of the parameters.
Cell-cell communication was determined in SoptSC via signaling networks for JAK/STAT, NOTCH, TGF-β, and WNT signaling pathways. In such networks, the probability between two cells is quantified by interactions between specific ligand-receptor pairs and their downstream target genes26. Prior calculation of the cell-cell interaction probability, we performed nature log normalization of the input count matrix. The lists of ligand-receptor pairs were determined before29,30 and with a survey of current literature. The target genes for each pathway were identified from NetPath28. Circos plots (R Studio Version)66 are utilized as a visualization of cell-cell signaling networks. Edges between cells represent an interaction between them, and the width of each edge represents the interaction probability. Arrows start from ligand and points to receptor. We set a threshold (φ = 0.1) such that the probability is restricted to zero if its value is less than φ. Cluster-level communications were naturally employed by calculating the average value of probabilities between cell-cell interactions from two clusters. In the cluster-to-cluster signaling network plots for each specific pathway, the width of the edge represents the probability value between clusters. Arrows start from ligand and points to receptor. Ligand-receptor pairs and their targets genes among all inferred cell populations are also presented as heatmaps. For each gene, the average expression within each population was calculated.

In order to identify similar patterns for ligand-receptor pairs with respect to cluster-to-cluster interactions, we clustered the ligand-receptor pairs by comparing the similarity between the cluster-to-cluster interactions associated with each specific pair. The clustering procedure includes two steps: projecting the ligand-receptor pairs into two-dimensional space via tSNE in MATLAB and then applying a hierarchical clustering method to the projected data. Ligand-receptor pairs with similar cluster-to-cluster interactions were grouped together and a circos plot of cluster-level interaction was produced for each group of pairs by taking the average of all the interactions within the group.

To determine consistency scores for signaling interactions between libraries, we sum all the differences between the overlapped cluster-cluster interaction probabilities in the reference library (library 3) and target library and divided by the number of nonzero cluster-cluster interactions in the reference library. The consistency score is defined as one minus the above value. Higher scores indicate better consistency between the two libraries.
Top 100 DEGs from each basal cluster were used for gene ontology and pathway analyses using Enrichr67.
Cellular Entropy (ξ) measures the likelihood that a cell will transition to a new state (i.e., from one cluster to another). Lower entropy values indicate that the cell remains in a steady state, while higher entropy values imply the cell inherits multiple state properties and is more likely to transition to a new state. Via the non-negative matric factorization step in SoptSC, the probability of each cell assigned to each cluster is calculated (i.e., Pi,j for cell i and cluster j). The entropy for each cell is then defined as:

ξi=−∑jKPi,jlog(Pi,j),
1
where K represents the number of clusters. To visualize the trajectory of cells and their likelihood of transition along a transition valley, we constructed a Waddington landscape and overlaid the cell states on it. The Waddington landscape is constructed by integrating the low-dimensional representation of our data (via applying EE to similarity matrix) and the cellular entropy estimation for each cell. This feature has been extended to the current methods employed by SoptSC.
All oligonucleotide sequences are listed in Supplementary Table 3.
Xenopus laevis was purchased from Kato-S Kagaku and handled according to the animal care regulations at the University of Tokyo. Preparation of interphase egg extracts, chromatin isolations, immunodepletions, and UbVS reactions was performed as described previously23 with minor modifications. Briefly, all extracts were supplemented with energy regeneration mix (2 mM ATP, 20 mM phosphocreatine, and 5 μg/ml creatine kinase). Demembranated sperm nuclei (3000–4000 sperm/μl in the final reaction) were added to egg extracts and incubated at 22 °C. For chromatin spin-down from the egg extracts, sperm nuclei were incubated in 15–25 μl of the extract preparation. The extracts were diluted with ten volumes of ice-cold chromatin purification buffer (CPB; 50 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 20 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.7) containing 2% sucrose, 0.1% NP-40, and 2 mM N-ethylenemaleimide (NEM) and kept on ice for 5 min. Diluted extracts were underlayed with 1.5 ml of a 30% sucrose cushion in CPB and centrifuged at 15,000 × g for 10 min at 4 °C using a swing–bucket rotor. The pellets were resuspended in Laemmli sample buffer. For xPAF15 depletion, 250 μl of antiserum were coupled to 50 μl of recombinant protein A-sepharose (rPAS, GE Healthcare). Antibody beads were washed three times in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and added with 5 μl fresh rPAS. Beads were washed twice in CPB, split into three portions, and 100 μl extracts were depleted in three rounds at 4 °C, each for 1 h. For xUHRF1 depletion, 170 μl of antiserum were coupled to 35 μl of rPAS. Antibody beads were washed three times in PBS and added with 4 μl fresh rPAS. Beads were washed twice in CPB, split into two portions, and 100 μl extracts were depleted in two rounds at 4 °C, each for 1 h. For xDNMT1 depletion, 250 μl of antiserum were coupled to 50 μl of rPAS. Antibody beads were washed three times in PBS and added with 5 μl fresh rPAS. Beads were washed twice in CPB, split into three portions, and 100 μl extracts were depleted in three rounds at 4 °C, each for 1 h. For add-back experiments, recombinant xPAF15 was added to xPAF15-depleted extracts at 320 nM, recombinant xUHRF1 was added to xUHRF1-depleted extracts at 110 nM, and recombinant xDNMT1 was added to xDNMT1-depleted extracts at 85 nM.

For UbVS reactions, egg extracts were incubated with 20 μM UbVS (Boston Biochem, Cambridge, MA, USA) for 30 min at 22 °C. Sperm nuclei were then added to egg extracts with or without 58 μM ubiquitin (Boston Biochem). For quantification of PAF15Ub2 on chromatin, immunoblot films from three independent experiments were scanned. The pixel intensity of protein bands was then quantified with Image J, and the average intensity normalized to UHRF1 was calculated for each set of conditions. Antibodies against xPAF15 were raised in rabbits by immunization with a GST-tagged recombinant full-length xPAF15. Antisera were further affinity-purified with the recombinant protein immobilized on a nitrocellulose membrane (1:500 dilution for western blots). Rabbit polyclonal antibodies raised against Xenopus DNMT1 and UHRF1 have been previously described17 (1:500 dilution for western blots). Rabbit polyclonal USP7 antibody A300-033A was purchased from Bethyl Laboratories (1:1000 dilution for western blots). Mouse monoclonal antibody against PCNA PC-10 was purchased from Santa Crutz Biotechnology and used for immunoblotting (1:1000 dilution for western blots). Rabbit polyclonal histone H3 antibody ab1791 was purchased from Abcam (1:3000 dilution for western blots). The following antibodies were generous gifts: xPCNA antibody used for IPs (TS. Takahashi, Kyusyu Univ.), xORC2 (J. Maller, University of Colorado, 1:1000 dilution for western blots), and xCdt1 (Marcel Mechali, CNRS, 1/2000 dilution for western blots). For IP, 10 μl of Protein A agarose (GE Healthcare) was coupled with 2 μg of purified antibodies or 5 μl of antiserum. The agarose beads were washed twice with CPB buffer containing 2% sucrose. The antibody beads were incubated with egg extracts for 1 h at 4 °C. The beads were washed four times with CPB buffer containing 2% sucrose and 0.1% Triton X-100 and resuspended in 20 μl of 2× Laemmli sample buffer.
MNase-digested chromatin fractions were prepared as described previously23,35. Briefly, the chromatin pellet was resuspended and digested in 100 μl of digestion buffer (10 mM HEPES-KOH, 50 mM KCl, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 0.1 mM CaCl2, 0.1% Triton X-100, pH 7.5, and 10 μM PR-619) containing 4 U/ml micrococcal nuclease (MNase) at 22 °C for 20 min. The reaction was stopped by the addition of 10 mM EDTA, and the mixture was centrifuged at 17,700 × g for 10 min. To prepare denatured chromatin lysates, the supernatant was treated with 1% SDS and then immediately diluted with lysis buffer (150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM EDTA, 15 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0). For the pull-down experiment, 5 μg purified recombinant xDNMT1 or its mutant were coupled with 20 μl of anti-FLAG M2 affinity resin at 4 °C for 1 h. The beads were collected and washed with CPB buffer containing 2% sucrose and then incubated with MNase-digested chromatin. After incubation at 4 °C for 1 h, beads were washed with CPB buffer containing 0.1% Triton X-100. Bound proteins were analyzed by immunoblotting.
Liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analyses were performed essentially as previously described50 with some modifications. Immunoprecipitated proteins were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and stained with Bio-Safe Coomassie (Bio-Rad). Gels were washed in Milli-Q water, and excised. The gel pieces were washed in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate (AMBC)/30% acetonitrile (ACN) for >2 h, and subsequently with 50 mM AMBC/50% ACN for >1 h. The gels were then dehydrated in 100% ACN for 15 min. Trypsin digestion was performed by incubation at 37 °C for 12–15 h with 20 ng/μl modified sequence-grade trypsin (Promega) in 50 mM AMBC and 5% ACN, pH 8.0. After digestion, the peptides were extracted four times with 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid/70% ACN. Extracted peptides were concentrated by vacuum centrifugation. For the LC-MS/MS analyses, a Nanoflow UHPLC, Easy nLC 1000 (Thermo Fisher Scientific) was connected online to a quadrupole-equipped Orbitrap MS instrument (Q Exactive, Thermo Fisher Scientific) with a nanoelectrospray ion source (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Peptides were separated on C18 analytical columns (Reprosil-Pur 3 μm, 75 μm id × 12 cm packed tip column, Nikyo Technos Co., Ltd.) in a 90-min three-step gradient (0–40% Solvent B for 72 min, 40–100% for 12 min, and 100% for 6 min) at a constant flow rate of 300 nl/min. The Q Exactive was operated using the Xcalibur software (Thermo Fisher Scientific) in data-dependent MS/MS mode, and the top 10 most intense ions with a charge state of +2 to +5 were selected with an isolation window of 2.0 m/z and fragmented by higher-energy collisional dissociation with a normalized collision energy of 28. Resolution and automatic gain control targets were set to 70,000 and 3E6, respectively. The data were analyzed using the Sequest HT search program in Proteome Discoverer 2.2 (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The maximum of missed cleavage sites of trypsin was set to three. Acetylation (Protein N-term and Lys), oxidation (Met), GlyGly modification (Lys), phosphorylation (Ser, Thr, Tyr), and pyroglutamate conversion (N-term Gln) were selected as variable modifications. Peptide identification was filtered at a false discovery rate <0.01. Non-label protein quantification was performed using the Precursor Ions Quantifier node in Proteome Discoverer 2.2. The RAW files have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium51,52.
The X. laevis Paf15 cDNA was amplified by PCR from a X. laevis cDNA library using primers 3621 and 3622 and ligated into pTA2 vector. For GST-xPAF15 expression, the amplified xPaf15 genes with primers 3667 and 3636 were gel-isolated and ligated into linearized pGEX4T-3 using In-Fusion (Clontech) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Protein expression in Escherichia coli (BL21-CodonPlus) was induced by the addition of 0.1 mM isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside to media followed by incubation for 12 h at 20 °C. For purification of GST-tagged proteins, cells were collected and resuspended in lysis buffer (20 mM HEPES-KOH pH 7.6, 0.5 M NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT)) supplemented with 0.5% NP40 and protease inhibitors and were then disrupted by sonication on ice. After centrifugation, the supernatant was applied to glutathione Sepharose beads (GE Healthcare) and rotated at 4 °C for 2 h. Beads were then washed three times with wash buffer 1 (20 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1% TritionX-100, 1 mM DTT) and once with wash buffer 2 (100 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 100 mM NaCl). Bound proteins were released in elution buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, 1 mM DTT) containing 42 mM reduced glutathione, and the purified protein was loaded on a PD10 desalting column equilibrated with EB buffer (10 mM HEPES/KOH at pH 7.7, 100 mM KCl, 0.1 mM CaCl2, 1 mM MgCl2) containing 1 mM DTT and then concentrated with Vivaspin (Millipore).

For protein expression in insect cells, C-terminally 3× Flag-tagged xPaf15 genes were transferred from pKS104 vector into pVL1392 vector. The amplified xPaf15 genes with primers 3720 and 3581 were gel-isolated and ligated into linearized pVL1392 using In-Fusion. R3A, T4D, K5A, K18R, K27R, K18R/K27R, and F72AF73A mutations in pKS104-xPAF15 or pVL1392-xPAF15 constructs were introduced using a KOD-Plus Mutagenesis Kit (Toyobo). All mutations were confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Baculoviruses were produced using a BD BaculoGold Transfection Kit and a BestBac Transfection Kit (BD Biosciences), following the manufacturer’s protocol. Proteins were expressed in Sf9 insect cells by infection with viruses expressing xPAF15 WT-3× Flag or its mutant for 72 h. Sf9 cells from a 500 ml culture were collected and lysed by resuspending them in 20 ml lysis buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 1% Nonidet P40 (NP-40), 1 mM DTT, 10 μg/ml leupeptin, and 10 μg/ml aprotinin), followed by incubation on ice for 10 min. A soluble fraction was obtained after centrifugation of the lysate at 15,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C. The soluble fraction was incubated for 4 h at 4 °C with 250 μl of anti-FLAG M2 affinity resin (Sigma-Aldrich) equilibrated with lysis buffer. The beads were collected and washed with 10 ml wash buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40, 1 mM DTT) and then with 5 ml EB (20 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 100 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2) containing 1 mM DTT. The recombinant xPAF15 was eluted twice in 250 μl EB containing 1 mM DTT and 250 μg/ml 3× FLAG peptide (Sigma-Aldrich). Eluates were pooled and concentrated using a Vivaspin 500 (GE Healthcare Biosciences). We note that all PAF15 mutant proteins was purified as efficiently as the WT protein from insect cells. For expression of C-terminally 3× Flag-tagged xUHRF1 (Wt and D333A/D336A), C-terminally 3× Flag-tagged xUhrf1 genes were transferred from pKS104 vector into pVL1392 vector. The amplified xUHRF1 genes with primers 4620 and 3581 were gel-isolated and ligated into linearized pVL1392 using In-Fusion. The D333A/D336A substitution was introduced using a KOD-Plus Mutagenesis Kit and confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Recombinant xUHRF1 proteins were also purified as described above.
DNA methylation was monitored by the incorporation of S-[methyl-3H]-adenosyl-L-methionine, incubated at room temperature, and the reaction was stopped by the addition of CPB containing 2% sucrose up to 300 μl. Genomic DNA was purified using a Wizard Genomic DNA Purification Kit (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Incorporation of radioactivity was quantified with a liquid scintillation counter. DNA replication was assayed by adding [α-32P]-dCTP to egg extracts containing sperm chromatin. The reaction was stopped by adding 1% SDS, 40 mM EDTA and spotted onto Whatman glass microfiber filters followed by trichloroacetic acid (TCA) precipitation with 5% TCA containing 2% pyrophosphate. Filters were washed in ethanol, dried, and TCA-precipitated radioactivity was counted in scintillation liquid.
The PHD finger of human UHRF1 (residues 299–366) was expressed as a fusion protein with GST and small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 (SUMO-1) at its N-terminus. Cell culture and purification were performed according to our previous report14,23. Briefly, hPHD was purified using GST affinity column of glutathione Sepharose 4B (GS4B: GE Healthcare). The GST-SUMO-1 fused hPHD was eluted with reduced glutathione and then GST-SUMO-1 tag was removed by the SUMO-specific protease GST-SENP2. The protein was further purified by anion-exchange chromatography using a HiTrap Q HP column and by SEC using a HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column (GE Healthcare). PAF152-11 was synthesized at Toray Research Center (Tokyo, Japan). The PHD finger:PAF152-11 complex was prepared by adding a 1.5-molar excess of the PAF152-11 peptide to the protein before its concentration using an Amicon concentrator with a 3000 Da cutoff (Millipore). The crystal was obtained using a 30 mg/ml concentration of the complex at 20 °C and the hanging drop vapor diffusion method with a reservoir solution containing 0.1 M HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5) and 70% (v/v) 2-methyl-2,4-pentanediol. The crystal was directly frozen in liquid nitrogen. The X-ray diffraction data were collected at a wavelength of 0.98000 Å on a Pilatus3 6M detector in beam line BL-17A at Photon Factory (Tsukuba, Japan) and scaled at 1.70 Å resolution with the program XDS package53 and Aimless54. This was followed by molecular replacement by PHASER55 and several cycles of model refinement by PHENIX56. The final model converged at 1.70 Å resolution with a crystallographic R-factor of 17.6% and a free R-factor of 18.7%. The crystallographic data and refinement statistics are given in Table 1. The figures were generated using PyMOL (http://www.pymol.org).
Preparation and purification of the disulfide linked K15 and K24 mono-ubiquitylated analog of human PAF152-30 and the human DNMT1 RFTS domain, residues 351–600, were performed according to our previous report23. hRFTS was purified using GST-affinity column of GS4B. After removing the GST-SUMO1 tag by GST-SENP2, the protein was further purified by anion-exchange chromatography of HiTrap Q HP column and HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column. hPAF152-30 K15C/K24C mutant was synthesized at Toray Research Center (Tokyo, Japan). Ubiquitin G76C mutant activated by 5,5′-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (Wako) and hPAF152-30 K15C/K24C were incubated for 1 h at room temperature and then purified by cation-exchange chromatography of Mono-S (GE Healthcare) to separate from the by-products. The UHRF1 PHD finger was buffer-exchanged using Superdex 200 Increase 10/300 GL (GE Healthcare) equilibrated with 10 mM HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.25 mM tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride and lyophilized PAF15 (residues 2–11) peptide was dissolved in the same buffer. hRFTS and PAF152-30Ub2 were equilibrated with 10 mM HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, and 10 μM zinc acetate. A MicroCal LLC calorimeter, VP-ITC (MicroCal), was used for the ITC measurements. The data were analyzed with the software ORIGIN (MicroCal) using a one-site model.
Protein expression in E. coli and purification of mouse UBA1 (E1), human UHRF1 (WT and its mutants), and ubiquitin were performed according to the previous reports17. E1 enzyme was expressed in E. coli Rosetta 2 (DE3) (Novagen) as a six histidine-tag fusion protein. The protein was purified using TALON® (Clontech), HiTrap Q HP, and SEC using HiLoad 26/60 Superdex200 column (GE Healthcare). hUHRF1 WT and mutants, D334A/D337A and H741A, were expressed in E. coli Rosetta 2 (DE3) as a GST-fusion protein. The protein was purified GST-affinity chromatography of GS4B column. After removal of GST-tag by HRV-3C protease, the protein was further purified by HiTrap Heaparin HP column (GE Healthcare) and HiLoad 26/60 Superdex200 column. Purification procedure of ubiquitin was as follows: after cell lysis and centrifugation, the supernatant was boiled at 85 °C for 15 min. After removing the debris by centrifugation, ubiquitin was further purified using cation-exchange chromatography of HiTrap SP HP (GE Healthcare) and HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column. UBCh5 (E2) was purified using TALON® and SEC of HiLoad 26/60 Superdex75 column. The cDNA encoding amino acids 2–71 of human PAF15 harboring HA-tag at the C-terminus was cloned into the modified pET21b vector, pET-Npro vector57. The Npro-fused PAF15 was purified from the pellet fraction. The inclusion body was then solubilized in buffer containing 8 M urea, 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), and 25 mM DTT by stirring overnight at 4 °C. Then the denatured fusion proteins were purified by Ni Sepharose 6 Fast Flow (GE Healthcare). The eluents were dialyzed in a step-wise manner to gradually remove the urea. The solution was additionally incubated with a buffer containing 100 mM Tris-HCl (pH7.5), 200 mM NaCl, and 2 mM DTT for 12–24 h at room temperature for completing autocleavage of Npro. The protein was further purified using HiTrap SP HP and HiLoad 16/60 Superdex 30 (GE Healthcare).

Standard ubiquitylation reaction mixtures contained 116 μM ubiquitin, 200 nM E1, 6 μM E2, 3 μM E3, 5 mM ATP, and 50 μM PAF15-HA as a substrate in ubiquitylation reaction buffer (50 mM HEPES [pH 8.0], 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.1% Triton X-100, 2 mM DTT). The mixture was incubated at 30 °C for 30 min, and the reaction was stopped by adding 3× SDS loading buffer. The reaction was analyzed by SDS-PAGE, followed by western blotting using 1/20,000 diluted anti-HA antibody (MBL, #M180-3).
SAXS data were collected on Photon Factory BL-10C using a UPLC® ACQUITY (Waters) integrated SAXS set-up. Fifty μl of a 6 mg/ml sample were loaded onto a Superdex 200 Increase 5/150 GL (GE Healthcare Science) pre-equilibrated with 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, and 5% glycerol at a flow rate of 0.25 ml/min at 4 °C. The flow rate was reduced to 0.025 ml/min at an elution volume of 1.63–2.30 ml. X-ray scattering was collected every 20 s on a PILATUS3 2 M detector over an angular range of qmin = 0.00690 Å−1 to qmax = 0.27815 Å−1. UV spectra at a range of 200–450 nm were recorded every 10 s. Circular averaging and buffer subtraction were carried out using the program SAngler58 to obtain one-dimensional scattering data I(q) as a function of q (q = 4πsinθ/λ, where 2θ is the scattering angle and λ is the X-ray wavelength 1.5 Å). The scattering intensity was normalized on an absolute scale using the scattering intensity of water59. The multiple concentrations of the scattering data around the peak at A280 and I(0) were extrapolated to zero-concentration using a Serial Analyzer60. The molecular weights of samples were calculated from the I(q) data of Ovalbumin (Sigma) at the highest values of A280 and I(0). The radius of gyration Rg and the forward scattering intensity I(0) were estimated from the Guinier plot of I(q) in the smaller angle region of qRg < 1.3. The distance distribution function P(r) of the sample at the highest peak of A280 and I(0) was calculated using the program GNOM61, where the experimental I(q) data were used in a q-range of 0.00885–0.17670 Å−1. The maximum particle dimension Dmax was estimated from the P(r) function as the distance r for which P(r) = 0. The molecular weight of the sample was estimated by comparing the I(0)/c (where c is the protein concentration) of the sample to that of Ovalbumin.
The mESC line J1 was originally provided by the laboratory of Dr. Rudolf Jaenisch (Whitehead Institute). Dnmt1 KO mESCs were described in ref. 62 and Uhrf1 KO mESCs were described in ref. 36. All mESC lines were maintained on 0.2% gelatin-coated dishes in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (Sigma) supplemented with 16% fetal bovine serum (FBS, Sigma), 0.1 mM ß-mercaptoethanol (Invitrogen), 2 mM L-glutamine (Sigma), 1× Minimum Essential Medium non-essential amino acids (Sigma), 100 U/ml penicillin, 100 mg/ml streptomycin (Sigma), recombinant LIF (ESGRO, Millipore), and 2i (1 mM PD032591 and 3 mM CHIR99021 (Axon Medchem, Netherlands)). Baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells containing a stably integrated lac operator (lacO) array used for the F3H assay were kindly provided by the laboratory of Dr. David L. Spector63. BHK cells were grown in a humidified atmosphere at 37 °C and 5% CO2 in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium supplemented with 1 mM Gentamycin (Serva GmbH) and 10% FBS (Sigma). All cell lines were regularly tested for mycoplasma contamination.
For generation of Paf15 K15R and K24R mutant mESCs, specific gRNAs for each mutation were cloned into a modified version of the SpCas9-T2A-Puromycin/gRNA vector (px459;64 Addgene plasmid #62988), in which SpCas9 is fused to truncated human Geminin (hGem) to preferentially generate double-strand breaks when homology-directed repair is active65. To generate targeting donors for each desired mutation, single-stranded oligonucleotides harboring either the K15R or K24R substitution and ~100 bp homologous to the respective genomic locus were synthesized (IDT, Coralville, IA, USA). Cells were transfected with a 4:1 ratio of donor oligo and Cas9/gRNA construct. RNA vector was obtained via cut-ligation. Two days after transfection, cells were plated at clonal density and subjected to a transient puromycin selection (1 mg/ml) for 40 h. Colonies were picked out 6 days after transfection. Cell lysis in 96-well plates, PCRs of lysates, and restriction digestion were performed as previously described62. Successful insertion of Paf15 K15R and K24R mutations was confirmed by Sanger sequencing. For generation of the Paf15 K15R/K24R double-mutant ESC lines, three characterized Paf15 K24R single mutants were subjected to a second round of gene editing to achieve the K15R substitution as described above.
Total RNA was isolated using a NucleoSpin Triprep Kit (Macherey-Nagel) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. cDNA synthesis was performed with a High-Capacity cDNA Reverse Transcription Kit (with RNase Inhibitor; Applied Biosystems) using 2 µg of total RNA as input. qRT-PCR assays with the oligonucleotides listed in Supplementary Table 3 were performed in 8 µl reaction volumes with 5 ng of cDNA used as input. For SYBR green detection, FastStart Universal SYBR Green Master Mix (Roche) was used. The reactions were run on a LightCycler480 (Roche).
For co-IP of DNMT1, 1.5 × 107 of mESCs were lysed in 250 µl of lysis buffer (10 mM Tris/Cl pH7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 0.5% NP40, 1.5 mM MgCl2, 0.5 µg/ml Benzonase (Sigma-Aldrich), 1 mM PMSF, 1× mammalian Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (e.g., Serva®), 5 mM NEM (Sigma)) at 4 °C for 30 min. Lysates were cleared by centrifugation at 20,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C, and the protein concentration was measured using Pierce™ 660 nm Protein Assay Reagent according to the manufacturer’s instructions. For DNMT1 IP, we used an anti-DNMT1 nanobody (commercial name: DNMT1-Trap, ChromoTek), which is an antigen-binding domain (VHH) derived from the heavy chain of an alpaca antibody raised against DNMT1. Equal amounts of protein extracts were incubated with 25 µl of DNMT1-Trap (undiluted) for 2 h at 4 °C under constant rotation. Beads were washed three times with washing buffer (10 mM Tris/Cl pH7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA) and boiled in Laemmli buffer at 95 °C for 10 min. Bound fractions were separated and visualized as a western blot.

To isolate cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions, 2 × 107 of mESCs were treated with 400 µl of hypotonic buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl pH 8, 10 mM KCl, 1.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 1× Protease Inhibitor, 2 mM PMSF, 5 mM NEM, and 0.1% Triton X-100) at 4 °C for 5 min. The cytoplasmic fraction was separated from nuclei by centrifugation at 1300 × g for 10 min at 4 °C, then supplemented with 150 mM NaCl and clarified by centrifugation at 20,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C. Nuclei were lysed as described above. Anti-mPAF15 antibody (Santa Cruz, sc-390515, 2 µg) was added to the cytoplasmic and nuclear lysate and incubated for 2 h at 4 °C under constant rotation. To precipitate mPAF15-bound proteins, 20 µl of protein G beads (GE17-0618-06) were added to the lysate for an overnight incubation at 4 °C under constant rotation.

Western blots for mDNMT1 were performed as described previously18 using a monoclonal antibody (rat anti-DNMT1, 14F6, 1:10 dilution) and a polyclonal antibody (rabbit anti-DNMT1, Abcam, ab87654, 1:2500 dilution). Other antibodies used for detection were mouse anti-PAF15 antibody (Santa Cruz, sc-390515, 1:1500 dilution), polyclonal rabbit-anti-H3 (Abcam, ab1791, 1:5000 dilution), and a monoclonal mouse-anti-tubulin (Sigma, T9026, 1:2000 dilution). The following secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were used: goat polyclonal anti-rat IgG (Dianova, 112-035-003, 1:5000), goat polyclonal anti-rabbit IgG (Bio-rad), and rabbit polyclonal anti-mouse IgG (Sigma, A9044, 1:5000). For detection of horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibodies, an ECL Plus reagent (GE Healthcare, Thermo Scientific) was used.
For RRBS, genomic DNA was isolated using a QIAamp DNA Mini Kit (QIAGEN), after an overnight lysis and proteinase K treatment. Preparation of the RRBS library was carried out as described previously66, with the following modifications: bisulfite treatment was performed using an EZ DNA Methylation-Gold™ Kit (Zymo Research Corporation) according to the manufacturer’s protocol except that libraries were eluted in 2× 20 mL M-elution buffer. RRBS libraries were sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq 1500 in 50 bp paired-end mode.
Raw RRBS reads were first trimmed using Trim Galore (v.0.3.1) with the “--rrbs” parameter. Alignments were carried out with the mouse genome (mm10) using bsmap (v.2.90) and the parameters “-s 12 -v 10 -r 2 -I 1.” CpG-methylation calls were extracted from the mapping output using bsmaps methratio.py. Analysis was restricted to CpG with a coverage >10. A methylKit67 was used to identify differentially methylated regions between the respective contrasts for the following genomic features: (1) repeats (defined by Repbase), (2) gene promoters (defined as gene start sites −2 kb/+2 kb), and (3) gene bodies (defined as the longest isoform per gene) and CpG islands (as defined by ref. 68). Differentially methylated regions were identified as regions with p < 0.05 and a difference in methylation means between two groups >25%.
Chromatin IP–sequencing reads for H3K9me238, H3K9me339 and H3K14ac40 in ESCs and EpiLCs were downloaded from GSE6020467, GSE2394368, and GSE3128469, respectively. Reads were aligned to the mouse genome (mm10) with Bowtie (v.1.2.2) with parameters “-a -m 3 -n 3 -best -strata.” Peak calling and signal pile-up was performed using MACS2 callpeak69 with the parameters “-extsize 150‘-nomodel -B -nolambda” for all samples. Tag densities for 1 kb Tiles detected in RBBS were calculated using custom R scripts. Replication domain data for mouse ESCs (mm10) for replication timing analysis was taken from http://www.replicationdomain.org/69. The average replication timing ratio was calculated over 1 kb Tiles detected in RBBS using custom R scripts. Data of partially methylated domains and highly methylated domains (mm10) was downloaded from https://zwdzwd.github.io/pmd42 and used to calculate average DNA methylation levels (RRBS) over these regions.
ESCs were grown in 96-well microplates (μClear, Greiner Bio-One), washed with PBS, and fixed with 3.7% formaldehyde. After three washing steps with PBST, cells were permeabilized (0.5 % Triton-X100), treated with denaturing solution (2 N HCl) for 40 min, and incubated with renaturing solution (150 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.5) for 20 min. Cells were then blocked in 2% bovine serum albumin for 1 h and incubated with primary antibody (mouse-anti 5mC, Diagenode 33D3) for 1 h at 37 °C. After washing three times with PBST, cells were incubated with secondary antibody (goat-anti-mouse coupled to Alexa647, Thermo Fisher) for 1 h at 37 °C. Cells were washed three times with PBST, counterstained with 200 ng/ml 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), and finally covered with PBS. Images were acquired by automation with an Operetta High-Content Image Analysis System (PerkinElmer, ×40 high NA objective) followed by analysis with the Harmony software (PerkinElmer). DAPI was used for the detection of single nuclei and 5mC modifications were measured in selected nuclei based on the antibody signal intensity.
The F3H assay was performed as described previously37. In brief, BHK cells containing multiple lac operator repeats were transiently transfected on coverslips using polyethyleneimine and fixed with 3.7% formaldehyde 24 h after transfection. For DNA counterstaining, coverslips were incubated in a solution of DAPI (200 ng/ml) in PBST and mounted in Vectashield. Cell images were collected using a Leica TCS SP5 confocal microscope. To quantify the interactions within the lac spot, the following intensity ratio was calculated for each cell: (mCherryspot − mCherrybackground)/(GFPspot − GFPbackground) in order to account for different expression levels. The following constructs used in the F3H assay have been described previously: pCAG-eGFP-IB70, pCAG-eGFP-mDNMT170, and pGBP-LacI37. To generate the mCherry-mPAF15 WT and KRKR expression constructs, the coding sequences of mPAF15 WT and KRKR were excised via AsiSI and NotI restriction digest from the GFP-PAF15 WT and KRKR constructs36 and ligated into the pCAG‐Cherry‐IB vector70
All animal experiments were performed according to the standards established by the U.S. Animal Welfare Act as per NIH guidelines. All mouse housing, handling, exposure, and procedure protocols used in this study were approved by the University Committee on Animal Research (UCAR) Committee of the University of Rochester, Rochester, NY (UCAR protocol 102204/UCAR-2007-070E, date of approval: 5 January 2019 and 3 February 2020).

Great precaution was taken in employing a robust and unbiased approach during the experimental and corresponding results analysis phases in order to ensure reproducibility befitting NIH standards. The key biological and chemical resources used in this study are of scientific standard and have been authenticated and revalidated. Unless stated otherwise, all biochemical reagents were purchased from Millipore Sigma (St. Louis, MO, USA). The antibodies listed in the study were commercial grade and were validated by their respective manufacturers.
We obtained the p16-3MR mice from Dr. Judith Campisi of the Buck Institute for Research on Aging via Unity Biotechnology, Inc., San Francisco, CA, USA for conducting our experiments. p16-3MR mice are diploid for p16INK4a and p19Arf with a trimodal (3MR) reporter fusion protein designed to identify, isolate, and selectively kill senescent cells [18]. We used these mice upon genotyping to test the suitability of this model for studying cellular senescence in cigarette-smoke exposure-related lung pathologies. Animals that underwent cellular senescence showed an increased expression of p16. These senesced cells could be identified with luminescence and red fluorescence protein (RFP) and selectively eliminated by treatment with Ganciclovir in the p16-3MR mice model. All the mice were housed in the vivarium facility at the University of Rochester Medical Center with a 12 h light/12 h dark cycle (lights on at 6:00 a.m.). All the animals used in the study were genotyped prior to CS exposure.
Male and female mice of different age groups (12–14 months and 17–20 months) were exposed to sub-chronic cigarette smoke generated by research grade cigarettes (3R4F) according to the Federal Trade Commission protocol (1 puff/min of 2 s duration and 35 mL volume for a total of 8 puffs at a flow rate of 1.05 L/min) with a Baumgartner-Jaeger CSM2072i automatic CS generating machine (CH Technologies, Westwood, NJ) [37,38]. The mainstream smoke exposure was performed at a concentration of ~250–300 mg/m3 total particulate matter (TPM) by adjusting the flow rate of the diluted medical air, and the level of carbon monoxide in the chamber measured at ~350 ppm, as described previously [37]. At the end of the exposure, 12–14 month old mice were referred to as “young,” whereas 17–20 month old mice were termed “old”. We use the same terms to denote these two groups in the rest of this manuscript. Mice that were not exposed to CS were considered the “air” group and kept in filtered air, which served as the control group in these experiments. Twenty-four hours following the final exposure, all the mice were euthanized, and their lung tissues were used for imaging, biochemical, and immunohistochemical analyses.
To identify senescent cells using luminescence, lung tissues harvested from euthanized mice were soaked for 10 min in pre-warmed (37 °C) PBS with 2% FBS and a 1:10 dilution of Xenolight RediJect Coelenterazine h (Cat# 706506, Perkin Elmer, Waltham, MA, USA). Following a 12–15 min incubation, tissues were transferred to a fresh 35 mm dish, and luminescence was measured using the IVIS® Spectrum multispectral imaging instrument (Caliper Life Sciences, Inc.—Hopkinton, MA, USA). The IVIS® Spectrum multispectral imaging instrument was also used to measure the lung tissue fluorescence (RFP) in our control and experimental groups at an excitation maximum of 535 nm and emission maximum of 580 nm.
Fluorescence imaging was employed to determine mRFP expression in the lung tissue sections from CS- and air-exposed mice. More specifically, non-lavaged mouse lungs were inflated with 50% solution of optimal cutting temperature (OCT) compound and 10 μm frozen sections were cut using a rotary microtome-cryostat. Immediately after sectioning, samples were fixed and mounted using Prolong (Cat# P36962, Life technologies Corporation, Eugene, OR, USA) with DAPI. Images were acquired using a Nikon Eclipse Ni-U fluorescence microscope at 200× magnification using Advance SPOT software.
A reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to determine the differential expression of cellular senescence genes in our experimental groups. Briefly, RNA was isolated from the lung tissue using the RNeasy miniprep kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). RNA quantity and quality were assessed using a Nanodrop 1000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific), and 1 μg of total RNA was used for cDNA conversion using the RT2 first strand kit (Cat# 330404, Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). The prepared cDNA was diluted and used to determine the expression of genes of interest using specific primers. All of the real-time PCR reactions were performed with RT2 SYBR Green/ROX PCR Master Mix (Cat# 330503, Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA), and relative mRNA expression of each gene was determined using the CFX96 real-time system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Differential expression of target genes in total RNA isolated from air- and CS-exposed lung tissues from young and old p16-3MR mice were expressed as relative fold change. As housekeeping control, 18S rRNA was used. Fold change (2^(—Delta Delta Ct)) was the normalized gene expression (2^(—Delta Ct)) in the CS-exposed group (treated) divided by the normalized gene expression (2^(—Delta Ct)) in the air group (control) [39,40]. The sequence of the primers used for amplification is provided in Supplementary Table S1
To determine the protein expression of various senescence-associated proteins, we employed immunoblotting. Briefly, one lobe of the lung tissue (~40 mg) was homogenized (Pro 200 homogenizer, at maximum speed, 5th gear for 40 s) in 0.3 mL of ice-cold RIPA buffer containing complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Cat# 78444, Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). The tissue homogenate was incubated on ice for one hour to allow complete cell lysis. Following this incubation, the homogenate was centrifuged at 13,000× g for 30 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was aliquoted and stored at −80 °C until further analyses. A small fraction of the tissue lysate was taken and diluted for protein analysis with the help of bicinchoninic acid (BCA) colorimetric assay (Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA), where BSA was used as a standard.

Equal amounts of protein from each sample (20 μg) were resolved on a sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel and subsequently electroblotted onto nitrocellulose membranes. The nitrocellulose membranes were then blocked using 5% milk solution for one hour at room temperature. Thereafter, the membranes were probed with antibodies targeted for the protein of interest. Antibodies towards anti-p16 (Cat# sc-377412, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Dallas, TX, USA), anti-p21 (Cat# 556430, BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA, USA), anti-Fn1 (Cat# ab2413), anti-PAI-1 (Cat# ab66705), anti-NF-κB(Cat# ab32360), anti-MMP9 (Cat# ab38898) (Abcam, Cambridge, UK), anti-MMP12 (Cat# NBP2-67344, Novus Biologicals, Littleton, CO, USA), anti-p53 (Cat# 2524), and anti-β-actin (Cat# 12620, Cell Signaling, Danvers, MA, USA) were added using a 1:1000 dilution (in 5% BSA in tris-buffered saline (TBS) containing 0.1% Tween 20) and incubated overnight at 4 °C. The following day, blots were washed three times with 1X TBST and probed with the appropriate anti-rabbit (Cat# 170-6515, Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) or anti-mouse (Cat# 7076, Cell Signaling, Danvers, MA, USA) secondary antibody (1:3000 dilution in 5% milk) for one hour. Chemiluminescence was detected through the Bio-Rad ChemiDoc MP Imaging system using the SuperSignal West Femto Maximum Sensitivity Substrate (Cat# 34096, Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). Bio-Rad Image Lab software was used for densitometric analyses. Corresponding band intensities for the proteins of interest were plotted as fold change relative to their respective β-actin loading control bands.
SA-β-gal activity was measured using a cellular senescence activity assay kit (Cat# ENZ-KIT129-0120, Enzo Life sciences, Farmingdale, NY, USA) as per the manufacturer’s protocol. Briefly, one lobe of the lung tissue (~40 mg) was homogenized (Pro 200 homogenizer) in 0.3 mL of ice-cold 1X cell lysis buffer containing complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Cat# 78444, Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). Tissue homogenate was incubated on ice for 30 min and then centrifuged at 13,000× g rpm for 15 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was collected and stored until further analyses. Fifty milliliters of cell lysate was mixed with 50 µL of assay buffer and incubated for 3 h at room temperature. Following incubation, 50 µL of the reaction mixture was added to 200 µL of Stop solution, and fluorescence was read using Cytation 5 (Biotek, Winooski, VA, USA) at 360 nm (Excitation)/465 nm (Emission).
The level of proinflammatory mediators in plasma (50 μL) was measured with the help of Bio-Plex Pro Mouse Cytokine Standard 23-Plex (Cat# 64209360, Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) as per manufacturer’s protocol. Blood plasma was diluted twofold, and the levels of each cytokine/chemokine were expressed as pg/mL.
All statistical calculations were performed using GraphPad Prism 8.0. Data are expressed as mean ± SEM. Pairwise comparisons were done using unpaired t-test. For multi-group comparisons, one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with ad-hoc Tukey’s test was employed. All animal experiments (n = 4–5 mice/group) were performed twice. Differences were considered statistically significant at * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, and *** p < 0.001 when compared with respective air controls
The human gastric carcinoma cell lines TMK1 and MKN74 were gifted by Professor Wataru Yasui (Molecular Pathology, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan). The human monocytic cell line U937 was purchased from Dainihon Pharmacy Co. (Tokyo, Japan). TMK1 and MKN74 cells were cultured in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle medium (DMEM; Wako Pure Chemical Corporation, Osaka, Japan) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS; Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) at 37 °C in 5% CO2. U937 cells were cultured in RPMI-1640 (Wako) supplemented with 10% FBS (Sigma) at 37 °C in 5% CO2. For in vitro glycation, cells were treated with D-glucose (50 mM, Sigma) or glyoxal (50 μM, Sigma) in DMEM for 7 d and 24 h, respectively.
We obtained frozen tissue samples from 10 patients with gastric cancer, involving those who were treated by surgical resection with neoadjuvant chemotherapy at the Nara Medical University Hospital. The tissues were subjected to a histopathological review at the Department of Molecular Pathology, Nara Medical University, during 2001–2019. As written informed consent was not obtained from the patients for their participation in the present study, all identifying information was removed from patient samples prior to their analysis to ensure strict privacy protection (unlinkable anonymization). All procedures were performed in accordance with the Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome/Gene Research enacted by the Japanese Government and with the approval of the Ethics Committee of Nara Medical University (approval number: 937).
For glycation of HMGB1, recombinant human HMGB1 (50 μg, R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN, USA) was incubated with D-glucose (GLC; Sigma, 500 mg/dL, for 48 h) or glyoxal (GLX; Sigma, 1 μM, for 6 h) at room temperature. For oxidization of HMGB1, recombinant human HMGB1 (50 μg, R&D Systems) was incubated with 100 μL of 50 μM H2O2 (Wako) on ice for 1 h. Glycated HMGB1 and oxidized HMGB1 were dialyzed using a dialysis membrane (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Tokyo, Japan) with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, 2L) at 4 °C for 6 h, twice, to remove unreacted glucose or glyoxal.
Cell growth was assessed using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium (MTS)-based Celltiter 96 Aqueous One Solution Cell Proliferation Assay kit (Promega Biosciences Inc., San Louis Obispo, CA, USA), as previously described [48]. The absorbance was measured at 490 nm on a Multiskan FC Microplate Photometer (Thermo Fisher). Apoptosis was induced by 5 μM thapsigargin, as previously described [49]. Briefly, a total of 1000 cells were stained with Hoechst 33342 dye (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA), and examined under a fluorescent microscope [4].
A modified Boyden chamber assay was used to examine the in vitro invasion of cancer cells [50]. Following incubation at 37 °C for 24 h, the filters were carefully removed from the inserts, stained with hematoxylin for 10 min, and mounted on microscopic slides. The number of stained cells in each insert was counted at 100× magnification. Invasion activity was quantified by calculating the average number of cells per well. All experiments were performed in triplicate.
Cells (1000 cells per well) were seeded in uncoated bacteriological 35-mm dishes (Coning Inc., Corning, NY, USA) with 3D Tumorsphere Medium XF (Sigma) [48]. Following culturing for 7 d, sphere images were taken by an inverted microscope coupled with a camera. The images were captured on a computer, and the sphere number was measured using NIH ImageJ software (version 1.52, Bethesda, MD, USA).
To prepare whole cell lysates, cells were washed twice with cold PBS, harvested, and lysed with 0.1% SDS-added RIPA buffer (Thermo Fisher) [4]. Cell fractions were extracted by processing the cells with a Cell Fractionation Kit (Abcam, Cambridge, UK), according to the manufacturer’s instructions [51]. Protein assays were performed using a Protein Assay Rapid Kit (Wako).
For immunoprecipitation, the lysates were incubated with antibodies against CML (Abcam) or RAGE (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc., Santa Cruz, CA, USA) and protein A/G agarose (Santa Cruz) for 3 h at 4 °C. Precipitates were collected by centrifugation, washed five times with lysis buffer, and investigated using immunoblot analysis and protein antibody array.
Whole cell lysates were prepared as previously described [4]. Lysates (50 μg) were subjected to immunoblot analysis in 12.5% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels, followed by electrotransfer onto nitrocellulose membranes (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). The filters were incubated with primary antibodies and then with peroxidase-conjugated IgG antibodies (MBL, Nagoya, Japan). Antibodies against tubulin (Oncogene Research Products, Cambridge, MA, USA) or lamin (Proteintech Group Inc., Rosemont, IL, USA) were used to assess the levels of protein loaded per lane. The immune complex was visualized using a CSA system (DAKO, Carpinteria, CA, USA). Antibodies against HMGB1 (Proteintech), RAGE, AKT, phosphorylated AKT (Santa Cruz), phosphorylated serine (pSer), CML (Abcam), and NF-κB p65 (Biorbyt LLC, St Louis, MO, USA) were used as the primary antibodies.
Antibody (2 μg in 200 μL PBS) was dot-blotted onto cellulose membranes using a 96-well dot-blot apparatus (Bio-Rad). The antibodies used for the assay are listed in Table 3. The membranes were incubated with total immunoprecipitates of anti-CML antibody (10 μg) or cell lysate (50 μg) in 5 mL of Tris-buffered saline (TBS, Wako) with 0.1% bovine serum albumin (Sigma) and 0.05% Tween 20 (Wako) at room temperature for 6 h. The membrane was then washed three times with TBS containing 0.05% Tween 20. The membranes were stained with a Silver Stain 2 Kit (Wako). Signal intensities were measured using the NIH ImageJ software (version 1.52). The signal ratio of the immunoprecipitates to the lysate for each antibody is shown in Figure 1A. For standardization, the signal ratio of immunoprecipitates to lysate on retinol-binding protein (RBP) in untreated cells was set to 100, which is a rapid turnover protein that hardly yields glycation [52].
To assess human and murine mRNA expression, RT-PCR was performed with 0.5 µg total RNA extracted from the three cell lines using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Germantown, MD, USA). The primer sets are listed in Table 1 and were synthesized by Sigma Genosys (Ishikari, Japan). PCR products were electrophoresed on a 2% agarose gel and stained with ethidium bromide. GAPDH mRNA was also amplified for use as an internal control.
An ELISA kit (Abcam, Cambridge, MA, USA) was used to measure the concentration of 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE). The assay was performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions, and whole cell lysates were used for the measurements.
Cells were suspended in hypotonic buffer (0.1 mM piperazine-N,N’-bis(2-ethane sulfonic acid) (PIPES) pH 6.5, 5 mM CaCl2, 5 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 0.5% Triton X-100, 0.5% NP-40), and centrifuged at 1000× g. Cell pellets were sonicated in extraction buffer (0.35 M NaCl, 20 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.2, 12 mM MgCl2, 5 mM ethylene glycol bis(2-aminoethyl ether)tetraacetic acid (EGTA), 5 mM DTT) for 1 min three times on ice. The nuclear extract was incubated with HMGB1 antibody (Proteintech) and protein A/G agarose (Santa Cruz) for 3 h at 4 °C. Precipitates were collected by centrifugation and washed five times with lysis buffer. The DNA concentration (A260) of the precipitate solution was measured using a spectrophotometer (Beckman Coulter Life Sciences, Indianapolis, IN, USA).
Fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled human recombinant histone H3 (2 μg, Rockland Immunochemicals Inc., Limerick, PA, USA) was mixed with glycated HMGB1 (2 μg) or human recombinant HMGB1 in Tris-buffered saline (100 μL) and incubated at 4 °C for 12 h. The mixture solution was immunoprecipitated using an anti-HMGB1 antibody (Proteintech) and protein A/G agarose (Santa Cruz) for 3 h at 4 °C. Precipitates were collected by centrifugation and washed five times with lysis buffer. The fluorescence intensity (A520) of histone H3 in the precipitate solution was measured using a fluorescence microplate reader (Thermo Fisher).
Statistical significance was calculated using a two-tailed Fisher’s exact test, an ordinary analysis of variance, and InStat software (GraphPad, Los Angeles, CA, USA). Correlations were tested using Pearson’s correlation test. A two-sided p value of < 0.05 was considered to indicate statistical significance. Multivariate analysis was done by multiple comparison analysis.
A total of 148 patients with primary HCC who underwent interventional embolotherapy in the Department of Gastroenterology in Qingdao Central Hospital (Qingdao, China) from March 2014 to March 2016 were selected. Among them, 122 were males and 26 females, aged 28–75 years. All patients were definitely diagnosed with primary HCC by clinical, imaging and α-fetoprotein tests or needle biopsy, and patients with lung and bone metastases were excluded. The tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) staging was conducted based on the criteria set by the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC). The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Qingdao Central Hospital and informed consents were signed by the patients or the guardians.

Interventional embolotherapy
Interventional embolotherapy was performed for all patients using Seldinger technique. Conventional indirect arterial angiography for superior mesenteric arteries and celiac arterial angiography were conducted, followed by selective and superselective intubations in tumor feeding arteries, and then chemotherapeutics adriamycin, 5-fluorouracil, oxaliplatin and leucovorin were reperfused. All patients were treated with iodized oil for embolization, and the dosage used in each patient varied. The dosage of iodized oil was adjusted at any time according to the size of HCC lesions and the patient's tolerance during the interventional embolotherapy.

Immumohistochemical staining
Cancer-adjacent and HCC tissues were taken from patients with primary HCC before and after treatment, and were fixed with 10% paraffin at 20°C for 16 h. Then, the tissues were cut into 5 µm slices using paraffin, followed by dewaxing, hydration and rinsing with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). The non-specific background was sealed with 10% serum at room temperature for 15 min, followed by the addition of mouse anti-human primary FHIT and p16 monoclonal antibodies (1:300; cat. nos. sc-390481 and sc-377412; Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc., Dallas, TX, USA) for incubation in a refrigerator at 4°C overnight. The tissues were used after rinsing with PBS. After that, biotin-labeled goat anti-mouse secondary polyclonal antibody (1:800; cat. no. SA00004-1; ProteinTech Group, Inc.; Wuhan Sanying Biotechnology, Wuhan, China) were added for incubation at room temperature for 30 min, followed by rinsing with PBS. Streptomyces antibiotic protein-peroxidase solution was added for incubation at room temperature for 30 min, followed by rinsing with PBS and 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB) color development. Then the tissues were washed using tap water, re-stained with hematoxylin, sealed with neutral gum, and observed via a light microscope (Olympus Corp., Tokyo, Japan).

Result assessment
A total of 100 cells were randomly selected in the field of view to be observed, and the average number of cells in the field was calculated as the number of positive cells of the expressed proteins in the tissues. Score of staining depth: 0–2 points represented no staining, weak staining and strong staining, respectively. Score of the positive rate of stained cells: 1–4 points represented the percentage of positive cells, namely [1, 25], [26, 50], [51, 75] and [76, 100], respectively. The product of the above two scores: ≤2 points for negative (−), 3–4 points for weakly positive (+), 5–8 points for moderately positive (++), and ≥9 points for strongly positive (+++).

Detection of the expression of FHIT and p16 genes via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR)
The total ribonucleic acids (RNAs) were extracted from HCC and cancer-adjacent tissues according to the instructions of TRIGene kit (Geneaid Biotech, Ltd., New Taipei, Taiwan). The concentration and purity of the two kinds of total RNAs were determined via a spectrophotometer (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Hercules, CA, USA), and the mean A260/A280 value was 1.8–2.0. According to the instructions of the RT kit [RevertAid First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (K1622; Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., Waltham, MA, USA)], the primer sequences were synthesized by Shanghai Jiran Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China) (Table I). A total volume of 20 µl reaction system was reversely transcribed into cDNA on an RT-PCR machine. The experimental results were analyzed using the 2−ΔΔCq method (6).

Table I.
Primer sequences.

Gene	Sequence
FHIT	F: 5′-AAGAGGAAAACTGAGCCATCTG-3′
R: 5′-CGGCTAACATCCCACTGATAAT-3′
p16	F: 5′-TGGTTAGAGGCTGCCTGTG-3′
R: 5′-TGGACAAGACCCTGAAGACA-3′
β-actin	F: 5′-CAGGAAGGAAGGCTGGAAG-3′
R: 5′-CGGGAAATCGTGCCTGAC-3′
FHIT, fragile histidine triad; F, forward; R, reverse.

According to the instructions of the real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR kit (2X RealStar Green Power Mixture, A311; GenStar BioSolutions Co., Ltd., Beijing, China), the reaction system was 25 µl and the reaction conditions were as follows: 95°C for 10 min, 95°C for 30 sec, 59.4°C for 30 sec, 40 cycles, and 95°C for 15 sec, followed by cooling to 65°C. Fluorescence values were read, and β-actin was used as an internal reference. The relative expression of FHIT and p16 messenger RNAs (mRNAs) were calculated via RT-qPCR.

Detection of the expression of FHIT and p16 proteins by western blotting
According to the instructions of the total protein extraction kit, the total proteins of HCC and cancer-adjacent tissues were separately extracted using ProteoPrep® Total Extraction Sample kit (Sigma-Aldrich; Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany), they were stored at −70°C for standby application, and the concentration of the extracted proteins was determined by a spectrophotometer (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Gels (15%) were prepared for sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A 15-µl solution was added per lane. Based on the marker band, the locations of the two proteins in the gel were selected. After membranes were transferred to PVDF membrane, proteins were transferred for staining for 35 min, 5% skim milk was added for sealing at 37°C for 90 min, followed by the addition of primary mouse anti-human primary FHIT and p16 monoclonal antibodies (1:400; cat. nos. sc-390481 and sc-377412; Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc.) for incubation at 4°C overnight. After that, Tris-buffered saline with Tween-20 (TBST) was added, and then the proteins were placed in a shaker for vibration and washing 3 times at 15 min each time. Afterwards, secondary goat anti-mouse polyclonal antibody (1:2,000; cat. no. sc-2005; Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc.) was added for incubation at 37°C for 1 h, TBST was added, and the proteins were placed in a shaker for vibration and washing for 15 min, which was repeated 3 times. Then, the electrochemical luminescence (ECL; EMD Millipore, Burlington, MA, USA) was added in a dark room for coloration, followed by exposure, color development and fixation. Finally, the images were scanned using the ChemiDoc™ MP Imaging System (Bio-Rad), they were analyzed via ImageJ professional image analysis software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA), and the optical density value was recorded.

Statistical analysis
In this study, the professional statistical software, Statistical Product and Service Solutions (SPSS) 17.0 (Beijing Xinmeijiahong Technology Co., Ltd. Beijing, China), was applied for the data analysis. The data are expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD). Comparison of the positive rate and the expression levels of FHIT and p16 with clinicopathological parameters was made using the Chi-square test. Spearman's correlation analysis was used to detect the correlation between FHIT and p16 expression levels. α=0.05 was taken as the test statistical standard. P<0.05 was considered to indicate a statistically significant difference.
ChIP was performed as previously described (48). Briefly, 2.1 × 106 cells were cross-linked and used for each immunoprecipitation. DNA was sheared to 500–1,000 bp by sonication. Protein G (Seracare, catalog 223-51-01) was used to pull down the antibody–antigen complexes immunoprecipitated with antibodies against UHRF1 (49), H3K4me3 (Cell Signaling, catalog 9751, clone C42D8), and H3K27me3 (Cell Signaling, catalog 9733, clone C36B11). H3 (Cell Signaling, catalog 4499, clone D1H2) and IgG (Life Technologies, catalog 026102) were included as positive and negative controls, respectively. Immunoprecipitated DNA was extracted with phenol-chloroform, precipitated with ethanol, and eluted. Recovered DNA was analyzed by qPCR. Primers spanning the promoter regions (within 2,500 bp of transcription start site) of the Myh11, Cdkn1b, Acta2, Sm22, Cnn1, Tgfβ2, and Tgfβr1 genes were used to amplify input and immunoprecipitated DNA. Primers were designed to span a CArG [CC(A/T)6GG] element. Sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 1. All samples were performed at least in triplicate from at least 2 independent experiments, and data were normalized to percentage of input.
The MethylCollector Ultra kit (Active Motif, catalog 55005) was used according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
The MethylCollector Ultra kit (Active Motif, catalog 55005) was used according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
shRNA, empty, miR-145, decoy miR-143, and decoy miR-145 lentivirus viruses were generated using standard protocols (19). Plasmids were transfected into HEK-293T cells using the CaCl2 method, and the viral supernatant was collected by ultracentrifugation. Viruses were titrated using a qPCR Lentivirus Titration(Titer) Kit (ABM, catalog LV900) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Adenoviruses were produced by Viraquest (12).
The BrdU incorporation assay was performed as previously described (19)
BeadChips (Illumina) were scanned with the Illumina iScan system. Raw data underwent variance-stabilizing transformation (VST) and were normalized using the quantile normalization method of the lumi R bioconductor package (50). Normalized data were filtered for genes with significant expression levels compared with negative control beads. Differentially expressed genes (P < 0.01) were identified with the Illumina t test error model (limma R bioconductor package) (51). Functional annotation of differentially expressed protein coding genes identified by microarray analysis was performed with the web-accessible tool Enrichr (52).
Cells and tissues were fixed and stained using a standard protocol. Samples were incubated with antibodies against UHRF1 (1:250) (ref. 49), Ki67 (1:500, Cell Signaling, catalog 12202, clone D3B5), ACTA2 (1:300, Biocare Medical, catalog CME305B, clone E184), CD45 (1:300, R&D Systems, catalog MAB114, clone 30-F11), and CD31 (1:300, R&D Systems, catalog AF3628).

Extracellular matrix deposition and elastin structure were evaluated using the Gomori Trichrome Kit (Histo-Line, catalog GT-100T) and the Weigert-Van Gieson Kit (Histo-Line, catalog WVG-100T), respectively.

Apoptosis was evaluated using the DeadEnd Fluorometric TUNEL System (Promega, catalog G3250), following the manufacturer’s instructions. Images were taken using an IX81-FV1000 Olympus spectral confocal laser scanning microscope.
Total RNA was extracted from primary VSMCs using NucleoZOL reagent (Macherey-Nagel) and then reverse-transcribed into complementary DNA (Life Technologies, catalog 4368813). The relative expression level of miRNA was normalized to the expression of the internal controls (CHPa or U6) using the 2−ΔΔCt method. Primers sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 2.
A list of included genes was previously described (53). Cards were purchased from Life Technologies.
Cell-cycle analysis was performed as previously described (54)
Eight-week-old mice were used for the experiments. Special attention was paid to animal welfare and to minimize the number of animals used and their suffering. For Uhrf1 knockdown on mouse carotids, 1 × 107 viral particles were mixed with 50% Pluronic F127 gel (Sigma-Aldrich, catalog P2443) at 4°C and the solution applied to the mouse vessels (Tygon collar placed 2 weeks after carotid transduction). For Uhrf1 genetic knockout, SM-MYH11-cre/ERT2 mice were donated by Stefan Offermanns (Max-Planck Institute for Heart and Lung, Bad Nauheim, Germany) and crossed with B6.Cg-UHRF1fl/fl (Riken, catalog RBRC06536)(24) and ApoE–/– mice (Charles River Laboratories). ApoE–/–UHRF1fl/flSM-MYH11-cre/ERT2 mice and relative controls were housed under specific pathogen–free conditions. Gene knockdown was induced by intraperitoneal injections of tamoxifen (Sigma-Aldrich, catalog T5648) for 5 consecutive days (1 mg total per mouse). Ang-II infusion (Sigma-Aldrich, catalog A9525; 1,000 ng/kg/min) was performed as previously described (28) using osmotic minipumps (Alzet, model 2004). For TR reporter mice, Cg-Gt(ROSA)26Sortm9(CAG–tdTomato)Hze (The Jackson Laboratory, catalog 007909) were crossed with SM-MYH11-cre/ERT2 and then fluorescent reporter was activated with tamoxifen injection as described above. Transaortic constriction was performed as previously described (55) and aortas were collected 2 weeks after surgery.
A Vevo 2100 high-resolution in vivo imaging system (Fujifilm VisualSonics) with an MS550S probe high-frame scan head was used for echocardiographic analysis. The abdominal aorta was identified by Doppler signal and longitudinal images were acquired between the renal arteries and the diaphragm. All measurements were performed with VisualSonics proprietary software using multiple frames, and analyses were performed as previously described (28). Briefly, cross-sectional diastolic and systolic diameter, together with the maximal aortic RWV [the first derivative (slope) of the aortic diameter with respect to time (dD/dt)], were determined from M-mode acquisitions and used to assess the consistency and viscoelastic behavior of the arterial wall (30). PD was calculated by subtracting diastolic from systolic aortic diameter and the resulting value was normalized to the maximum systolic diameter to account for vessel size.

For telemetry analysis, an HD-X11 transmitter (DSI Data Sciences International) was positioned subcutaneously and a catheter was implanted in the left carotid. The basal pressure measurements were registered 1 week before tamoxifen injection, and subsequent measurements were started 1 week after gene deletion induction. All measurements were recorded at the same time of the day. MAP was measured using the following formula: MAP = (systolic pressure + [2 × diastolic pressure])/3.
Cells were lysed in RIPA buffer and sonicated for 5 cycles (30 seconds on, 30 seconds off) using a Biorupture Next Gen (Diagenode). After quantification using DCTM Protein Assay (BioRad), the same quantity of protein was separated in 4–12% NuPAGE Bis-Tris precast gel (Life Technologies) and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (BioRad). Afterwards, anti-UHRF1 (1:1,000) (49), anti-CDKN1A (1:1,000, catalog sc-528, clone C-19), anti-CDKN1B (1:1,000, catalog sc-397, clone C-19), anti-CDKN2B (1:1,000, catalog sc-377412, clone C-7), anti-H3 (1:5,000, catalog sc-517385, clone 1B1-B2), anti-CNN1 (1:1,000, catalog sc-136987, clone G-10) (all from Santa Cruz Biotechnologies); anti-ACTA2 (1:1,000, Sigma-Aldrich, catalog A5228, clone 1A4); anti-GAPDH (1:1,000, catalog 2118, clone 14C10), anti-pSMAD1/5/8 (1:1,000, catalog 9511), anti-pSMAD 2/3 (1:1,000, catalog 8828, clone D27F4), anti-SMAD2 (1:1,000, catalog 5339, clone D43B4), anti-SMAD5 (1:1,000, catalog 12534, clone D4G2) (all from Cell Signaling); and anti-MYH11 (1:1,500, Protein Tech, catalog 21404-1-AP) were incubated overnight at 4°C, and secondary peroxidase-conjugated antibodies were incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. Immobilon Western Chemiluminescent HRP (Millipore) was used for protein visualization using a ChemiDoc (BioRad). Bands were quantified using ImageJ software. Results are expressed relative to the control. See complete unedited blots in the supplemental material.
Normality of the data was calculated with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Statistical comparison was performed on at least 3 independent experiments with the Mann-Whitney U test (nonparametric unpaired), Wilcoxon’s test (nonparametric paired), 2-tailed t test (parametric unpaired, 2 groups of analysis), or repeated-measures ANOVA combined with Tukey’s multicomparison t test (comparisons among more than 2 groups, parametric unpaired). Prism 6.0 software (GraphPad) was used to assess the normality of the data and for statistical calculation. P < 0.05 was considered significant. Statistical analysis data are mean ± SD.









